WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 16TH, TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS DONALD WHITE AND I
WILL BE CHAIRING TONIGHT'S
MEETING FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES.
PLEASE REVIEW A FULL PRINTOUT
MEETING AGENDA PROVIDED AT
EITHER END OF THE DAIS MANAGER
LEONARD, WOULD YOU PLEASE CALL
ROLL COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE
COMMISSIONER RAYBANS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
COMMISSIONER LEAVE HERE
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE,
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE HERE
.
>> COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE.
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE
OF COURSE.
>> THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I ANY OPPOSED
SAME SIGN THE MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE DECEMBER 2ND
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE IS
THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY
I ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION WILL START WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHAIR WHICH
THERE WAS NOTHING OF IMMEDIATE
RELEVANCE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WHICH I DON'T THINK
MEANS THAT WE'RE SLACKING OFF
BUT AND BUT THERE WERE TWO
RESOLUTIONS THAT WILL
FACILITATE THE DEVELOPMENT
OF THIRTY THREE FIFTY S FIFTH
JUST TO LET YOU KNOW BECAUSE
THAT PROBABLY MAKES YOU HAPPY.
>> OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
DISH MANAGER LEONARD, DO YOU
HAVE A REPORT FOR US TONIGHT.
>> NO REPORT TO THANKS TO THE
COMMISSION YOU HAVE COVERED A
LOT OF GROUND THIS YEAR.
WE'VE BEEN THROUGH A COUPLE
OF DRAFTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN TO MY COUNT THIRTEEN
MEETINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
DEDICATED SOLELY OR PARTIALLY
TO DETAILED REVIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> SO THANK YOU THANK YOU FOR
ALL YOUR SERVICE TO THE CITY
AND TO THE COMMUNITY AND LET'S
DO IT ALL AGAIN NEXT YEAR.
>> THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
>> WE COME TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX.
THIS IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING OR A
DEDICATED PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
.
I AM TO NOTE THAT ITEM TEN A
SEVEN FIFTEEN AND SEVEN
SEVENTEEN E HURON WILL HAVE A
DEDICATED PUBLIC HEARING.
>> WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE PRESENT THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PESTANA IF ON PHONE OR USE THE
RACE HAND FEATURE IF ON ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND INNER
MEETING I'D NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF USING ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND BACKGROUND
EXCUSE ME AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN
CHAMBERS OR ON ZOOM PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
>> COME RIGHT UP.
I ALWAYS FORGET HOW LONG THAT
SPIEL IS.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ HERE I LIVE IN
LAS VEGAS DRIVE IN DICKIN
NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE FOURTH
WARD.
YOU'VE ALREADY RECEIVED MY
COMMENTS SUPPORTING
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD
BEYOND THAT GENERAL STATEMENT
OF SUPPORT AT THIS LATE STAGE.
AS I'VE STATED BEFORE, I
SUPPORT THIS PLAN AND BELIEVE
IT IS THE RIGHT DIRECTION FOR
MY HOMETOWN.
I'D LIKE TO FOCUS ON NEXT STEPS
WHICH START WITH ZONING.
I'D LIKE TO SEE PLANNING
COMMISSION GET STARTED AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE WITH IMPLEMENTING
HUB AND TRANSITION ZONES.
MAYBE THERE ARE SOME PARCELS
THE CITY WE'RE DECIDING WHETHER
THOSE PARCEL PARCELS WILL BE
TRANSITION OR RESIDENTIAL A
TOUGHER DECISION.
FINE.
LEAVE THEM ALONE AND MOVE
FORWARD WITH TRANSITION HUB IN
THE AREAS WHERE YOU'RE ALREADY
PRETTY CLEAR SUCH AS DOWNTOWN
MAJOR CORRIDORS, CURRENT DC ONE
AREAS AND SO FORTH.
THIS SEEMS LIKE LOW HANGING
FRUIT TO ME.
LET'S TAKE AN 80 20 APPROACH
WITH THIS AND OPEN UP POTENTIAL
FOR A LOT OF NEW HOUSING TO BE
BUILT IN ANN ARBOR.
I AGREE WITH WILL LEAF AND
OTHER COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT
YOU CAN AND SHOULD DO MUCH
OF THIS WORK IN-HOUSE.
I THINK A LOT OF THE IDEAS FROM
DC ONE CAN BE RECYCLED WHICH
WOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR
CIRCULAR ECONOMY.
THE MORE COMPLICATED WORK
OF UNIFYING OUR VARIOUS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND
DETERMINING TRANSITION VERSUS
RESIDENTIAL AND THE FUZZIER
AREAS OF THE MAP IS GOING TO
TAKE A LONG TIME AND INVOLVE A
LOT OF FEELINGS RIGHTFULLY SO.
WE ARE GOING TO SEE CHANGES IN
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND WE NEED
TO ENSURE THAT THOSE CHANGES
ARE FOR THE BETTER.
HAMMERING OUT THOSE DETAILS
WILL BE A LOT MORE DIFFICULT.
ANOTHER THING I THINK WE NEED
TO FOCUS ON BEYOND THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN IS
THE ISSUE OF STREETSCAPES.
THIS CAME UP A BIT IN THE
DISCUSSIONS AROUND ATC ONE AND
I DON'T THINK WE EVER FIGURED
OUT A GOOD WAY TO ADDRESS IT.
A LOT OF THAT IS OUTSIDE OF THE
SCOPE OF ZONING BECAUSE IT
TAKES PLACE IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY OUTSIDE THE PURVIEW
OF PRIVATE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
HUB AND TRANSITIONAL IS WE'RE
ENVISIONING HOUSING A LOT
OF RESIDENTS ALONG WHAT ARE
CURRENTLY BUSY AND DANGEROUS
ROADS.
MANY OF THEM ARE UGLY,
UNPLEASANT PLACES TO EXIST
OUTSIDE OF A CAR AS MORE
HOUSING IS BUILT ALONG THESE
CORRIDORS, WE NEED TO SEE THEM
TRANSFORMED INTO SAFE,
COMFORTABLE AND PLEASANT SPACES
ANYWAY.
WE HAVE A LOT MORE TO SAY ON
THAT TOPIC BUT I'LL SAVE IT FOR
ANOTHER NIGHT.
THANK THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE?
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
TOM LYON TWENTY SEVENTEEN
LONDONDERRY ROAD.
I WAS ON LEAVE.
HEY SARAH.
HEY.
I WAS ON LEAVE LAST YEAR SO I'M
BOARDING LATE ON A TRAIN THAT
IS VERY EAGER TO LEAVE THE
STATION.
HOWEVER, I RECENTLY ATTENDED A
LISTENING SESSION WITH THE
PLANNING MANAGER BRANT LENNERT
THAT WAS ORGANIZED BY MY WARD
TWO CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THANK YOU TO ALL OF YOU FOR
ORGANIZING THE EVENT.
IT WAS VERY INFORMATIVE AS YOU
FOLKS ALL WELL KNOW.
THE PLAN PROPOSES TO ELIMINATE
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING, REDUCE
MINIMUM LOT SIZES, ALLOW TRI
PLEXUS OF UP TO THREE STORIES
WHICH COULD BE UP TO 40 FEET IN
HEIGHT AND ALLOW COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT IN RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I ASKED MR. LEONARD COULD A
DEVELOPER BUY MY NEXT DOOR
NEIGHBOR'S RANCH HOUSE, TEAR IT
DOWN, SUBDIVIDED INTO THREE
LINES, CUT DOWN THE TREES AND
BUILD THREE TRIED PLEXUS?
I WAS SHOCKED TO FIND THAT THE
ANSWER WAS YES.
DO ANY OF US WANT THREE 40 FOOT
TRY PLEXUS TOWERING OVER OUR
HOMES?
I DON'T THINK SO.
NOR DID THE CROWD THAT
ATTENDED.
ONE PERSON ASKED COULD A SEVEN
ELEVEN BE BUILT NEXT DOOR TO MY
HOUSE?
ANSWER YES BUT MAYBE CITY
COUNCIL WILL INSTITUTE ZONING
RULES THAT LIMIT THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENTS SO THAT WE'D BE
MORE LIKELY TO GET A JEFFERSON
MARKET INSTEAD OF A 7-ELEVEN.
BUT THERE'S NO GUARANTEE.
MOREOVER, MR. LEONARD ADMITTED
THAT THE COMMISSION HAS NO IDEA
IF THE PLAN WILL REALLY MAKE
HOUSING MORE AFFORDABLE IN ANN
ARBOR THEY HOPE SO BUT THEY
HAVE TO ADMIT THAT ALL THE NEW
HOUSING BUILT IN RECENT YEARS
HAS COME IN AT THE HIGH END
OF THE MARKET BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE
IT'S MOST PROFITABLE FOR
DEVELOPERS TO BUILD.
I RECENTLY RECEIVED A LARGE
TRIFOLD FLIER ABOUT THE PLAN
FROM THE MAYOR AND MY CITY
COUNCIL REPS.
MAYOR TAYLOR ASSURES US THAT
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES WILL NEVER
BE OUTLAWED THE MAYOR TO
PROTEST TOO MUCH METHINKS I
WOULD NEVER HAVE EVEN IMAGINED
THAT POSSIBILITY.
SO THE VERY FACT THAT HE FELT
THE NEED TO ADDRESS IT IS
DEEPLY DISTURBING.
THE GOALS OF THE PLAN ARE
AGREED AFFORDABILITY, EQUITY,
SUSTAINABILITY, DYNAMISM FOR
ALL WHO COULD QUESTION THOSE
NOBLE GOALS.
BUT AS ALWAYS THE DEVIL IS IN
THE DETAILS.
THE PLAN OPENS UP A WILD WEST
IN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
WITH NO NUANCE OR CONSIDERATION
FOR THE IMPACTS ON CURRENT
HOMEOWNERS AND TAXPAYERS.
LONG TIME RESIDENTS COULD FIND
THEMSELVES SURROUNDED BY
TREELESS LOTS WITH NINE NEW
UNITS ON EITHER SIDE TOWERING
UP TO 40 FEET IN HEIGHT WITH NO
GUARANTEE OF AFFORDABILITY FOR
THE NEW RESIDENTS.
THE PLAN SEEMS SO EAGER TO
ATTRACT THE CITIZENS OF AN
URBAN DESERVE BETTER.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE
?
>> GOOD EVENING PETER JACKSON
CAN GET HIS HEIGHT IN ANN ARBOR
.
>> I KIND OF I DO AGREE WITH
THE PRIOR SPEAKER'S COMMENT AND
INCLUDING THE THAT THE THE
LAUDABLE GOALS OF THE OF THE
SO-CALLED COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN AND THE CONCERN I HAVE
IS THAT A LOT OF THINGS HAVE TO
GO RIGHT FOR THE PLAN TO RESULT
IN THE LAUDABLE OBJECTIVES AND
AND IF IF ANY ONE OF MANY
THINGS DOESN'T GO RIGHT, WE
COULD FIND OURSELVES 10, 20
YEARS FROM NOW WITHOUT ANY MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND IN A
LESS ATTRACTIVE CITY IN WHICH
TO LIVE IN EFFECT WE WE MAY END
UP THROWING THE BABY OUT WITH
THE BATHWATER AND AND THEY HAVE
NOTHING NO WAY TO TO TO IMPROVE
THE SITUATION BECAUSE OF ALL
THIS THE DECISIONS THAT WE MADE
ON BASED ON THOSE ASSUMPTIONS.
SO THAT MY LARGEST CONCERN BUT
MORE SPECIFICALLY I WAS WALKING
IN SEVERAL OPEN SPACES AROUND
THAT PART OF TOWN AND CAMPUS,
ONE TO A LITTLE PARK ON THE
CORNER OF WALNUT AND SOUTH.
YOU THE THE FOREST HILLS
CEMETERY IS ANOTHER OPEN SPACE
WHERE PEOPLE USE USE OF THAT
ANYBODY CAN USE ALTHOUGH IT'S
PRIVATELY OWNED AND THEN
OF COURSE THERE'S THE
ARBORETUM.
ALL OF THOSE PLACES HAVE
RESIDENTIAL STREET BORDERING
SOME PART OF THEIR SPACE AND IT
OCCURRED TO ME THAT ONE OF THE
THE NICE THINGS ABOUT WALKING
THERE IS THAT THE BORDERS ARE
OPEN THE FENCE LINE TO OPEN
THAT AND BECAUSE THEIR BACK
YARDS OF THE HOUSES THAT ARE
LOCATED THERE AND MY READING
OF THE PLAN IS GIVES ME PAUSE
OR CONCERN THAT WHAT WE COULD
END UP DOING IS BUILDING 40
FOOT HIGH STRUCTURES CLOSE TO
THE BACKS OF THESE LIGHTS AND
THEREFORE WITHIN VIEW OF THE
OPEN SPACE PEOPLE ARE ARE USING
TO WALK OR OTHERWISE RECREATE.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THE PLAN HAS
A PROVISION TO TRY AND ADDRESS
THAT AVOID THAT.
>> BUT BUT I THINK THAT IT
SHOULD.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
JEFF CROCKETT ON SUNDAY MY WIFE
AND I AND SOME FRIENDS TOOK THE
BOSTON EDISON HISTORIC DISTRICT
CHRISTMAS TOUR, THE BOSTON
EDISON HISTORIC DISTRICT
INSTANTLY RECOGNIZABLE AREA IN
THE HEART OF DETROIT CONTAINING
OVER NINE HUNDRED HOMES.
MOST HOMES WERE CONSTRUCTED
BETWEEN 1995.
NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE EARLY
RESIDENTS OF THIS AREA INCLUDED
HENRY JAMES COUSINS OR ROCK'EM
SEBASTIAN KREISKY AND JOE LEWIS
BERRY GORDY THOSE ARE NOW
TODAY.
BOSTON EDISON IS A MULTIRACIAL,
MULTIFAITH NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
PEOPLE FROM DIVERSE OCCUPATIONS
AND PROFESSIONS WHO SHARE A
COMMON APPRECIATION AND LOVE
OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
IT BOASTS THE HISTORIC BOSTON
EDISON ASSOCIATION, THE OLDEST
CONTINUOUS NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION IN THE CITY FOUNDED
IN NINETEEN TWENTY SIX.
ONE OF THE STOPS ON THAT TOUR
WAS THE HOME OF CONRAD AND SHAH
GOOLSBEE WHO SHARED THE
FOLLOWING FASCINATING STORY.
MY HUSBAND AND I COUNTED AN
HONOR TO LIVE IN THE FORMER
HOME OF TUSKEGEE AIRMAN CARL
KERRY AND HIS WIFE JANETTE
CURIS RAISED THEIR CHILDREN
HERE AND SHARED A BEAUTIFUL
LIFE IN THIS HOME FOR MORE THAN
40 YEARS.
TUSKEGEE AIRMEN CARL KERRY
HOLDS A SIGNIFICANT PLACE IN
AMERICAN HISTORY AS A PILOT
WITH THE LEGENDARY TUSKEGEE
AIRMEN WHOSE COURAGE AND
SERVICE HELPED SHAPE OUR NATION
AND BREAK BARRIERS IN AVIATION
IN THE MILITARY TODAY YOU WILL
FIND DISPLAYS THROUGHOUT THE
HOME WE TOURED HONORING CARL
KERRY AND HIS FELLOW AIRMEN
ENSURING THAT THEIR LEGACY
CONTINUES TO BE REMEMBERED AND
CELEBRATED.
PLEASE UNDERSTAND THE VALUE
OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS CONSISTS
NOT JUST OF THE HISTORIC
ARCHITECTURE BUT ALSO THE
HISTORIES OF THE PEOPLE WHO
LIVE THERE IN OUR HOME AFTER WE
RENOVATED WE HAVE RECEIVED
VISITS FROM DESCENDANTS OF EACH
OF THE THREE PRIOR OWNERS
INCLUDING THE SHOEMAKERS THE
SHANKLIN AND THE OHARA
FAMILIES.
WE INTEND TO USE THE
INFORMATION AND PICTURES THEY
SHARED IN CREATING A BOOK ABOUT
THE HISTORY OF OUR HOUSE THAT
WILL STAY WITH OUR HOUSE.
THE PROCESS OF CREATING AN
HISTORIC DISTRICT INCLUDES
DOCUMENTING THE HISTORIES
OF NOT JUST HISTORIC BUILDINGS
BUT ALSO OF THE RESIDENTS.
THE WORK THAT WAS DONE IN
DEVELOPING THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT RESULTED IN
THE BOOK HISTORIC ANN ARBOR A
CULTURE GUIDE BY SUSAN
WINESBURG AND PATRICK MCCAULEY
AVAILABLE ON AMAZON.
UNFORTUNATELY, A CURRENT DRAFT
OF THE CLUB OMITS THE
SIGNIFICANT ADVANTAGES THAT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS BESTOW WHICH
ARE INCLUDED IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS OF GRAND
RAPIDS, KALAMAZOO, MADISON,
PORTLAND, BOULDER AND
MINNEAPOLIS.
PLEASE CORRECT THIS OVERSIGHT
MEMBERS OF THE ANN ARBOR
PRESERVATION ALLIANCE STAND
READY TO HELP YOU.
HOWEVER, I'M GREATLY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOODS OF NORTH FOURTH
AND NORTH FIFTH IN THE FIRST
WAR THAT DO NOT HAVE A HISTORIC
DISTRICT PROTECTION WITH THE
TRANSITION DESIGNATION A NUMBER
OF HISTORICALLY SIGNIFICANT
HOMES IN THIS AREA RISK BEING
DEMOLISHED WITHOUT CAPTURING
THE HISTORIES.
>> THAT IS SIMPLY UNACCEPTABLE.
THANKS FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
?
HELLO COMMISSIONERS JULIE
RHYDER OLD FOURTH WORD COLOR ME
DISTRESSED BY THE COMPREHENSIVE
END-USE PLAN THERE'S A WIDE
RANGE OF PLANS AN INFINITE
NUMBER YOU COULD HAVE COME UP
WITH THAT YOU SETTLED FOR A
COPY FROM ANOTHER CITY,
MINNEAPOLIS, A CITY THAT
COMPARABLE TO ANN ARBOR IS
DISAPPOINTING.
MINNEAPOLIS HAS THE ABILITY TO
MANDATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
THEY USE THAT MANDATE.
MINNEAPOLIS OFFERS PROPERTY TAX
BREAKS TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
ANN ARBOR.
CANUT MINNEAPOLIS IS MUCH
LARGER IN POPULATION AND LAND
AREA AND DOES NOT FUNCTION
UNDER THE SAME LAWS
RESTRICTIONS.
IT IS FAR FROM CORRESPONDING AT
LEAST FOR FINALLY HEARING FROM
CITY PLANNERS THAT THE PROPOSED
PLAN WILL NOT BRING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
IT WILL PERHAPS SLOW THE
INCREASE IN RENTAL AND SALES
PRICES.
IT WILL BRING NOTHING DOWN.
IT WILL NOT REDUCE TRAFFIC.
IT WILL ONLY SLOW THE INCREASE
IN THE AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC TRUTH
AT LAST IT WILL NOT MAKE THE
CITY ANY MORE SUSTAINABLE BUT
MIGHT SLOW THE INCREASE
OF UNSUSTAINABILITY NO MATTER
HOW MANY RESIDENTS CITIZENS
VOTERS COME BEFORE YOU AND CITY
COUNCIL VOICING OPPOSITION TO
THIS PLAN BASED ON WELL THOUGHT
OUT CONCERNS YOU CONTINUE TO
PLOW AHEAD.
THIS PLAN IS BASED ON NUMBERS
PULLED OUT OF THIN AIR WITH NO
SURVEYS OF DATA OR UNDERLYING
JUSTIFICATION OTHER THAN
INCREASED TAX REVENUE.
I LISTENED TO TWO CITY COUNCIL
PEOPLE EARLIER THIS WEEK.
NEITHER ONE OF THEM HAD HEARD
OF THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
FOUNDATION STUDY SHOWING THE
ENTIRE COUNTY OF WASHINGTON
ONLY NEEDS FIFTEEN THOUSAND NEW
UNITS BY 2050 AND THAT IS THE
VERY BEST THE VERY BEST THING
THE CITY AND I EVER COULD DO
WOULD BE TO BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FOR SENIOR CITIZENS
BECAUSE SO MANY LIVES TRAPPED
IN THEIR HOMES BY PROPERTY
TAXES AND MOVING EXPENSES.
THERE ARE FORTY THOUSAND
BEDROOMS LOCKED UP IN THESE
HOUSES AND IF THEY WERE FREED
FOR THE USE FOR NEW FAMILIES
THAT WOULD PROVIDE MOST OF WHAT
THE CITY CLAIMS IT NEEDS.
THE PROBLEM IS IT WOULD NOT
PROVIDE FOR A MASSIVE INCREASE
IN PROPERTY TAX REVENUE AND WE
HAVE NOT HEARD ONE WORD FROM
THE CITY ABOUT CUTTING EXPENSES
EITHER CURRENT OR PROJECTED.
THE PLAN IS BEING DRIVEN BY
FORCES NO ONE IN THE CITY WILL
PUBLICLY ADMIT TO THE
GOVERNOR'S DESIRE TO HAVE
WASHTENAW COUNTY TURNED INTO A
SACRIFICE ZONE FOR ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE DATA CENTERS.
IT WILL RUIN OUR WATER
SUPPLIES, INCREASE UTILITY
COSTS AND COST LOTS
OF POLLUTION OR CLIMATE
REFUGEES BEING LURED BY ABRAHM
LUSTGARTEN AND MISSY STULTS.
THESE ARE THE KINDS
OF SCENARIOS THIS PLAN IS
DESIGNED FOR NOT THE ACTUAL
NEEDS OF THE COMMUNITIES IN ANN
ARBOR IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
GUTTING THE BEAUTIFUL LOVINGLY
RESTORED HOMES AND APARTMENTS
OF THE NORTH CENTRAL ANN ARBOR,
THE HISTORIC AFRICAN-AMERICAN
PART OF THE CITY BY DESIGNATING
IT PART OF THE DDA IS JUST AS
UNACCEPTABLE AND SOME ZONING
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL AREAS
TO TRANSITION ZONES.
YOU HAVE TO WANT ZONING ALONG
MAJOR ARTERIES.
YOU HAVE SO MANY HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS ALREADY IN THE
PIPELINE IT'S HARD TO PICK OUT
ONE OR TWO THINGS THAT CAN BE
TWEAKED.
I RECOMMEND A COMPLETELY NEW
PLAN DESIGNED TO MEET THE REAL
NEEDS OF THE REAL COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
AND JUST A NOTE FOR EVERYONE
THAT'S IN THE CHAMBERS.
I KNOW YOU THINK YOU ARE
WHISPERING AND NO ONE CAN HEAR
YOU BUT WE CAN ACTUALLY HEAR
YOU VERY CLEARLY AND IT
DISTRACTS US FROM HEARING THE
SPEAKER BECAUSE THE ACOUSTICS
THEY ACTUALLY PROJECT YOUR
VOICE RIGHT INTO OUR EARS.
SO IF YOU WANT TO HAVE A
PRIVATE CONVERSATION, I WOULD
INVITE YOU JUST TO LEAVE THE
CHAMBERS BUT NOT TO GO IN THE
HALLWAY, GO ALL THE WAY DOWN TO
WHERE THE ELEVATORS ARE BECAUSE
OTHERWISE IT JUST COMES BACK
THROUGH THE HALLWAYS.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
?
>> YEAH, MY NAME IS TRICIA
HACKNEY.
I OWN AND HAVE LIVED AT MY
CONDO FOR TWENTY FIVE YEARS.
THE CROSSINGS ACCORDING TO THE
PD FOREIGN LINK AND ANN ARBOR
WAS SOLD TO ME AND PJ TO LLC
FOR THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
FOUR THOUSAND AND ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTY FOUR DOLLARS AS A BANK
OWNED FORECLOSURE PROPERTY.
THAT'S THE LOW PRICE FOR
PRISTINE BYRNES PARK PROPERTIES
AND PIDGEY TO SECURED A ONE
POINT SIX MILLION DOLLAR LOAN
MORTGAGE ON THE PROPERTY DATED
TWELVE TWENTY ONE TWENTY THREE
DISMANTLED THE HOUSE, BUILT TWO
BUILDINGS WITH SEVEN APARTMENTS
SOME RENTING FOR FIVE THOUSAND
A MONTH.
THE PROPERTY TAXES INCREASED
OVER FIVE HUNDRED PERCENT.
NINETY FOUR IN LINCOLN IS THE
CANARY IN THE COAL MINE.
IT IS THE BLUEPRINT FOR FUTURE
M.B YES AND MY BACKYARD
PROPERTIES ELIMINATING EXISTING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
REPLACING IT WITH HIGH RENT
HIGH TAX PROPERTIES.
THAT IS PRECISELY WHAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS REZONING IS
TARGETED TO DO ESSENTIALLY
SANCTIONING THE INVESTOR TAKE
OVER FOR STARTER HOMES AND
LEGITIMIZING THE ELIMINATION
OF THE MIDDLE CLASS AND AN IRA
CURRENTLY IN SOUTHERN ANN URBAN
NEIGHBORHOODS THE HOUSING IS
HEAVILY POPULATED WITH HOUSES
RANGING PRICE FROM THREE TO
FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
WHILE A TYPICAL PRICING FOR
BURNS PARK IT IS THESE STARTER
HOMES FOR YOUNG FAMILIES AND
RETIREES IN ANN ARBOR THAT
REZONING TARGETS.
MY TWIN SISTER HAS LIVED FOR
TWENTY SEVEN YEARS AS A
RETIRED.
YOU HAVE BEEN PEDIATRIC NURSE
AND SOUTHERN IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS WARY
OF INVESTORS GOING DOOR TO DOOR
TO INQUIRE IF RESIDENTS WANT TO
SELL TO THE POINT OF HARASSMENT
.
THE INVESTORS ACTIONS WOULD
APPLY A FAIT ACCOMPLI REGARDING
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS THEY
ARE ACTING AS IF IT'S ALREADY
IN PLACE.
INVESTORS HAVE LOTS OF PRACTICE
AND A HISTORY WELL DOCUMENT
WITH GENTRIFIER STRATEGIES IN
CLOSING 94 LINCOLN BENT THE
RULES OF CURRENT ZONING LAWS.
HOW CAN THE PUBLIC TRUST THAT
THE CITY WILL ABIDE BY THE NEW
ZONING LAWS?
WHO IS EMPTY, EMPTY, EMPTY TO
LLC AND WHERE DOES THE CITY
DRAW THE LINE IF EVER IN
SUPPORTING MIDDLE CLASS
NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE GOP
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING GREG MONROE
WARD FIVE.
I'D LIKE TO THANK ALL OF YOU
WHO TOOK TIME TO ORGANIZE AND
READ PUBLIC COMMENTS.
I'D LIKE TO DRAW YOUR ATTENTION
TO MY COMMENTS SUBMITTED ABOUT
INCENTIVES FOR PRESERVING
ARBITRARY MATURE TREE CANOPY
EXCUSE ME GOING BEYOND
STRATEGIES THAT CURRENTLY EXIST
IN THE PLAN.
WE NEED THEIR BENEFITS TO
MITIGATE CLIMATE CHANGE NOW AND
I'D LIKE TO SPEND THE REST
OF MY THIRTY MINUTES TALKING
ABOUT NATURAL FEATURE
PROTECTIONS THE PLAN STATES
THAT IT WILL MAINTAIN EXISTING
NATURAL TEACHER PROTECTIONS BUT
THE PLAN ALSO SIGNIFICANTLY
EXPANDS BY RIGHT ZONING EXISTS
A NATURAL FEATURE PROTECTIONS I
BELIEVE MEAN TO REFERENCE UDC
SECTION FIVE DOT TWENTY THREE
WHICH SHOULD BE EXPLICITLY
STATED IN THE PLAN.
THE PROBLEM I SEE IS THAT THE
WAY THE UDC PROTECTS NATURAL
FEATURES IS THROUGH SITE REVIEW
AND BY RIGHT ZONING REQUIRES NO
SITE REVIEW.
SO IF WE'RE EXPANDING BY RIGHT
ZONING AND REDUCING SITE REVIEW
WE'RE NOT MAINTAINING EXISTING
NATURAL FEATURE PROTECTIONS
WE'RE BYPASSING OR DIMINISHING
THEM.
I THINK THIS IS A LOOPHOLE THAT
SHOULD BE RECONCILED.
WE SHOULD REQUIRE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW ON ANY PARCEL WITHIN TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY FEET OF OR THAT
CONTAINS OUR NATURAL FEATURES
INVENTORY.
THE PLAN COMMUNICATES THE
IMPORTANCE OF NATURAL FEATURE
PROTECTION STATING IT AS A CORE
COMMUNITY VALUE AND VITAL
RESOURCE FOR CLIMATE RESILIENCE
.
THE UDC STATES THE IMPORTANCE
OF NATURAL FEATURES PROTECTIONS
INDICATING THAT PROTECTING THEM
IS CRITICAL TO PUBLIC HEALTH
SAFETY AND GENERAL WELFARE.
WE KNOW THAT THERE IS
PRECEDENCE WHERE BY ZONING HAS
ALREADY CONTRIBUTED TO
SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF NATURAL
FEATURE INVENTORY.
THE ACREAGE OF WOODLAND AND
STEEP ON LONGSHORE NEAR AAGOT
DESTROYED BY DEVELOPMENT MET
THE HIGHEST CONCERN PRIORITY
CRITERIA FOR BOTH CATEGORIES
OF FEATURES.
THIS LOSS NOT ONLY INCREASES
LOCAL FLOODING RISK BUT ALSO
DEGRADES WATER QUALITY AS IT
OCCURRED WITHIN TWO HUNDRED
FEET OF THE HURON RIVER OUR
PRIMARY SOURCE OF DRINKING
WATER.
>> SOME HAD PREVIOUSLY STATED
THAT IT IS HARD TO LEGALLY
PROTECT NATURAL
PER THE
STATUTES REFERENCED IN THE UDC
AND TO PROTECT OUR NATURAL
FEATURES IN THE LONG SHORE
EXAMPLE BUILDING ATOP THE
EXCAVATED HILL WHICH NO LONGER
EXISTS WHERE THE ORIGINAL HOUSE
STOOD THAT WAS DEMOLISHED WOULD
HAVE NOT STOPPED THE DEVELOPER
FROM CAPITALIZING THE LAND.
NATURAL FEATURES PROVIDE
MULTIPLE ESSENTIAL SERVICES
FLOOD CONTROL,
CARBON SEQUESTRATION, EROSION
PREVENTION AND WATER
PURIFICATION AND NO ENGINEERED
SYSTEM CAN REPLACE THEM AT
COMPARABLE COST EFFECTIVENESS.
SO I RESPECTFULLY URGE YOU TO
INCLUDE IN THE PLAN A
REQUIREMENT FOR SITE REVIEW ON
ANY PARCEL WITHIN 250 FEET
OF OR THAT CONTAINS OUR NATURAL
FEATURES INVENTORY.
WE HAVE THE INVENTORY MAPPED.
WE HAVE THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO
REQUIRE THIS AND TO PROTECT OUR
NATURAL FEATURES.
THIS REALLY SHOULD BE A NO
BRAINER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING TOWN STALBERG ONE
TWO ZERO TWO TREVER STREET IN
THE HEART OF LOWERTOWN.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE DEAN
THAT APPROVED LAST WEEK.
IT'S OUR FORESE CURRENTLY ZONED
AREA MADISON STREET AND 4TH AND
5TH AVENUES.
THE AREA IS SURROUNDED BY A LOT
OF D TO TYPE OF HOUSING NEWER
AND NEW DORMS ARE GOING TO COME
IN THAT'LL BE AROUND TO HEIGHT
AS WELL.
THIS ONE'S ASKING FOR D ONE
REZONING A BIG PART OF THE
JUSTIFICATION IS THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE PART OF THE HUB
LAND USE CATEGORY AS DESIGNATED
IN THE CURRENT DRAFT OF THE
PLAN.
SO IT'S COMING LET'S DO IT NOW
INSTEAD OF WAITING UNTIL THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN IS
COMPLETE.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT IS IF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN IS
SUPPOSED TO BE THE VISION
OF THE COMMUNITY FOR THE FUTURE
OF OUR CITY AND WE STILL HAVE
THE COMMENT PERIOD OPEN FOR US
TO TELL YOU WHAT OUR VISION IS
AND SOME PEOPLE HAVEN'T EVEN
COMMENTED YET.
MAYBE YOU HAVEN'T HEARD THEM.
WE'RE PRESUPPOSING THE OUTCOME
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN.
YOU HAVEN'T EVEN VOTED ON THE
FINAL DRAFT THE PLAN THAT'S
GOING TO COME TO YOU AND THAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN IN FEBRUARY
COUNCIL IS GOING TO VOTE TO
ADOPT IT IN MARCH AT THE
SOONEST.
YEAH, WE'RE MAKING DECISIONS
BASED ON THIS PROPERTY BEING
DESIGNATED ON THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP THAT'S IN OUR CURRENT
DRAFT AS A DEVELOPER
OF SUBDIVISIONS I HAD REZONING
REQUEST IN A COMMUNITY IN
OAKLAND COUNTY WHERE THE
COMMUNITY WANTED WHAT I
PROPOSED.
THE NEIGHBORS WERE EVEN HAPPY
WITH IT BUT WE HAD TO WAIT TO
THE END OF A COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN REVISION BEFORE WE
COULD GET OUR REZONING APPROVED
.
WE WAITED.
WE DID THE LANDOWNER SOLD AND
MADE SOME MONEY BY THE
DEVELOPER, MADE SOME MONEY AND
WAS PRETTY GOOD DEVELOPMENT.
PEOPLE ARE HAPPY WE WAITED.
>> YOU ARE PRESUPPOSING THE
OUTCOME.
THAT'S AN INSULT TO EVERY
CITIZEN WHOSE PARTICIPATING IN
THIS PROCESS WHO IS BEING TOLD
PLEASE LOOK AT THE BANNERS, GET
YOUR COMMENT BEFORE JANUARY 5TH
BUT YOU'VE PRESUPPOSED THIS.
THE OTHER THING I DON'T LIKE
ABOUT THAT PROJECT DO YOU ONE
IN THAT AREA YOU COULD DO A POD
INSTEAD THERE'D BE A WAY YOU'VE
DONE THAT AND FORCED ON CHURCH
WHERE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
DIDN'T SUPPORT IT CURRENTLY BUT
YOU GAVE MORE UP ZONING AND
THEY DID A PD AND THERE WAS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND IN THIS CASE IT BE
OVER 30 UNITS OR WHATEVER THE
CASH EQUIVALENT ZONING IT TO D
ONE YOU GET RID OF THAT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO WE HAVE THIS COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT AFFORDABILITY AND RIGHT
HERE WE'RE WATCHING THIS BODY
VOTE DOWN AFFORDABILITY RIGHT
THERE.
THE OTHER THING THAT CAN HAPPEN
THERE IS THOSE THOSE I FORESEE
CANNOT HAVE SHORT TERM RENTALS
NOT ON SHORT TERM RENTALS.
NOW THIS PROJECT WILL BE ABLE
TO HAVE AFTER IT'S DONE BY
RIGHT.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO BUILD A
BUILDING.
THEY SHOWED THEY COULD DO
WHATEVER THEY WANT TO DO.
THEY COULD USE THE EXISTING
HOUSING AS LONG TERM TO TAKE IT
AWAY FROM LONG TERM AND MAKE IT
SHORT TERM
.
>> THAT WAS A REALLY BAD
DECISION AND AN INSULT TO THE
PEOPLE OF THIS CITY.
THANK YOU.
HI.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
YEAH YEAH OK.
MY NAME IS GABRIELLE POYA.
>> I LIVE AT 1721 NEWPORT,
RHODE.
I WAS MADE AWARE OF THIS PLAN A
FEW MONTHS AGO AND I'M REALLY
DISTURBED BY HOW LITTLE IT
SEEMS THAT OUR CITY GOVERNMENT
IS THINKING ABOUT THE MIDDLE
CLASS AND WHAT PEOPLE ARE
ACTUALLY CONTENDING WITH IN
THIS CITY.
THIS PLAN DOES NOT YOU KNOW,
THIS PLAN TALKS ABOUT
AFFORDABILITY AND THEN CITES A
BUNCH OF STUFF THAT OTHER
CITIES DID AND NEVER PROVIDES
ANY REAL DATA ON WHETHER THOSE
CITIES HAVE REACHED THOSE AIMS
AT ALL.
AND THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT
COMMENTS MADE AROUND CONFUSION
HOW A LEADS TO BE.
I MOVED HERE TEN YEARS AGO TO
GO TO SOCIAL WORK SCHOOL.
>> I STAYED HOME FROM NEW YORK
CITY AND I STAYED BECAUSE I
COULD AFFORD A ONE BEDROOM
APARTMENT COMFORTABLY AND I
COULD WALK TO DOWNTOWN.
>> THERE WAS A PLACE TO PARK MY
CAR.
YOU KNOW I HAD ACCESS TO
NATURAL SPACES THAT WEREN'T
OVERLY CROWDED AS I'M SURE YOU
CAN IMAGINE WORKING AS A SOCIAL
WORKER I NEED THAT KIND
OF SPACE TO DECOMPRESS AND I
WOULD HAVE LOVED TO BUY MY
HOUSE LITTLE DID I KNOW THAT MY
LANDLORD ACTUALLY SOLD IT TO A
DEVELOPER AND I LIVED IN THE
UPSTAIRS FLOOR FOR UNDER ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH.
THERE WERE TWO GRADUATE
STUDENTS WHO LIVED BELOW ME WHO
LIVED TO BEDROOM FOR UNDER TWO
THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH.
THAT HOUSE WAS RAISED EVERY
TREE IN THE LOT WAS CUT DOWN
AND I BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE
FOUR HOUSES GOING UP THERE AND
THAT SAME DEVELOPER ON SPRING
STREET DID THE SAME THING WITH
A PROPERTY DESTROYED IT
REPLACED IT WITH TWO PROPERTIES
DOUBLED EACH IN VALUE.
SO WHEN YOU GUYS CALL THIS LIKE
EIGHT FOR ALL LIKE WHAT YOU'RE
REALLY SAYING IS LIKE A TWO FOR
RICH PEOPLE BECAUSE YOU KNOW
ALL OF THE PEOPLE WHO SERVE
THIS CITY ARE TRYING TO BUY
HOUSES, GO TO AN OPEN HOUSE ON
A SUNDAY AND YOU'LL SEE BUT
WHEN YOU OWN ALL THIS LAND AND
YOU MAKE IT SO, SO ENTICING FOR
DEVELOPERS AND SPECULAR WITHOUT
PUTTING IN ANY PROTECTIONS FOR
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
BUY A HOUSE FOR TWO YEARS FOR
YOU KNOW, ELDERLY PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO DOWNSIZE, FOR FAMILIES
WITH YOUNG KIDS WHO ARE GETTING
BIGGER AND THEY NEED SOME SPACE
LIKE THIS.
>> YOU KNOW, THIS IS NOT
HELPFUL TO THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
I DON'T SEE HOW THIS IS
REPRESENT THE DEPTH OF WHAT ANN
ARBOR LIKE PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE
WANT I DON'T SEE ANYWHERE WHERE
THERE WERE SURVEY IS DONE
ASKING PEOPLE WHAT THEY NEED.
THIS IS A TIME OF LIKE ECONOMIC
CRISIS FOR PEOPLE WHO LIVE
HERE, FOR PEOPLE WHO LIVE
ANYWHERE AND THIS IS REALLY
DISRESPECTFUL.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION THIS TIME
?
>> THANK YOU CHAIR WYCHE KEN
GARBER TWENTY EIGHT HAVE A HOME
COURT PRESS.
I'D LIKE TO THANK ALL OF YOU
FOR THE ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF PERSONAL TIME THAT YOU'VE
COMMITTED OVER THE PAST YEAR TO
THIS PROCESS.
YOU'RE HERE STAMINA AND
DEDICATION ARE REALLY
IMPRESSIVE AND AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE IT.
SO I HATE TO ADD A NOTE
OF DISSONANCE BUT YOU KNOW,
BESIDES THE ECONOMIC CRISIS,
WE'RE UNDERGOING A CLIMATE
CRISIS AS WELL AND THAT'S MY
MAIN CONCERN HERE TONIGHT.
TWO WEEKS AGO I SPOKE TO THE
FAILURE OF THIS PLAN TO ADDRESS
THE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH PROBLEM
AND WHY INVOKING THE TERM
RESILIENCE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY
OVER AND OVER IN THE PLAN DON'T
SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
>> RATHER INVOKING THEM DOESN'T
SO WHAT DOES FIRST OF ALL,
SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
OBVIOUSLY NO NEW FOSSIL FUEL
SO WHAT DOES FIRST OF ALL,
INFRASTRUCTURE SECOND EXPLOSION
OBVIOUSLY NO NEW FOSSIL FUEL
DOESN'T MENTION A MASSIVE HOUSE
INFRASTRUCTURE SECOND EXPLOSION
BUILDING PRINCIPLES THOSE AS
DOESN'T MENTION A MASSIVE HOUSE
YOU KNOW ARE AIR TIGHTNESS,
BUILDING PRINCIPLES THOSE AS
CONTINUOUS INSULATION, THERMAL
YOU KNOW ARE AIR TIGHTNESS,
BRIDGE FREE CONSTRUCTION, HIGH
CONTINUOUS INSULATION, THERMAL
PERFORMANCE DOORS AND WINDOWS
BRIDGE FREE CONSTRUCTION, HIGH
AND ENERGY RECOVERY VENTILLA
PERFORMANCE DOORS AND WINDOWS
AND THEY CAN APPLY TO
AND ENERGY RECOVERY VENTILLA
MULTIFAMILY CONSTRUCTION
AND THEY CAN APPLY TO
INCLUDING HIGH RISES AND
MULTIFAMILY CONSTRUCTION
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
INCLUDING HIGH RISES AND
THIRD, MASS TIMBER CONSTRUCTION
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
FORTHE NET ZERO
THIRD, MASS TIMBER CONSTRUCTION
CARBON BUILDINGS A SYSTEM FOR
FORTHE NET ZERO
THIS NOW EXISTS IN THE STATE
CARBON BUILDINGS A SYSTEM FOR
BUILDING CODE AS APPENDIX C C
THIS NOW EXISTS IN THE STATE
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS.
BUILDING CODE AS APPENDIX C C
FIRST BUILD A TWENTY TWENTY ONE
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
FIRST BUILD A TWENTY TWENTY ONE
THEN CALCULATE THE RENEWABLE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
ENERGY NEEDS FROM ENERGY
THEN CALCULATE THE RENEWABLE
SIMULATION OR STANDARD TABLE
ENERGY NEEDS FROM ENERGY
AND ACHIEVE THAT WITH ONSIDE OR
SIMULATION OR STANDARD TABLE
OFFSIDE RENEWABLE ENERGY.
AND ACHIEVE THAT WITH ONSIDE OR
>> AND OBVIOUSLY THIS
OFFSIDE RENEWABLE ENERGY.
INCENTIVIZES BUILDINGS THAT ARE
>> AND OBVIOUSLY THIS
MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT THAN
INCENTIVIZES BUILDINGS THAT ARE
CODE .
MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT THAN
SO THE PLAN DOESN'T AND DOES
CODE .
MENTION ENERGY EFFICIENCY BUT
SO THE PLAN DOESN'T AND DOES
ONLY IN PASSING.
MENTION ENERGY EFFICIENCY BUT
I THINK WE SHOULD BRING IN THE
ONLY IN PASSING.
SPECIFICS.
I THINK WE SHOULD BRING IN THE
THE PLAN ALSO FALLS SHORT IN
SPECIFICS.
TERMS OF CLIMATE AMBITION.
THE PLAN ALSO FALLS SHORT IN
CARBON NEUTRALITY DOES NOT MEAN
TERMS OF CLIMATE AMBITION.
ZERO EMISSIONS.
CARBON NEUTRALITY DOES NOT MEAN
IT ALSO ALLOWS CARBON OFFSETS,
ZERO EMISSIONS.
RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS AND
IT ALSO ALLOWS CARBON OFFSETS,
OTHER GIMMICKS TO GET TO NET
RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS AND
ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY MAY BE
OTHER GIMMICKS TO GET TO NET
ACCEPTABLE FOR 20 30 EVEN
ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY MAY BE
THAT'S DEBATABLE BUT THIS IS A
ACCEPTABLE FOR 20 30 EVEN
PLAN FOR TWENTY FIFTY LONG
THAT'S DEBATABLE BUT THIS IS A
BEFORE THEN RICH COMPANIES
PLAN FOR TWENTY FIFTY LONG
EXCUSE ME COUNTRIES NEED TO
BEFORE THEN RICH COMPANIES
ZERO OUT REAL EMISSIONS OR ANY
EXCUSE ME COUNTRIES NEED TO
CHANCE OF AVOIDING FATAL
ZERO OUT REAL EMISSIONS OR ANY
TIPPING POINTS AND PRESERVING A
CHANCE OF AVOIDING FATAL
LIVABLE PLANET.
TIPPING POINTS AND PRESERVING A
THE PLANET SHOULD CALL FOR
LIVABLE PLANET.
ELIMINATING EMISSIONS AS SOON
THE PLANET SHOULD CALL FOR
AS POSSIBLE THROUGH THE
ELIMINATING EMISSIONS AS SOON
PROCEDURES, METHODS, STANDARDS
AS POSSIBLE THROUGH THE
THAT I MENTIONED EARLIER.
PROCEDURES, METHODS, STANDARDS
FINALLY, THE PLAN SHOULD
THAT I MENTIONED EARLIER.
CHALLENGE CONSUMERISM CIRCULAR
FINALLY, THE PLAN SHOULD
ECONOMY DOES THE OPPOSITE BY
CHALLENGE CONSUMERISM CIRCULAR
JUSTIFYING PURCHASES AND
ECONOMY DOES THE OPPOSITE BY
PROMISING GREEN GROWTH WHICH IS
JUSTIFYING PURCHASES AND
A FALLACY THE WEALTHY
PROMISING GREEN GROWTH WHICH IS
ESPECIALLY AND THEY'VE BEEN
A FALLACY THE WEALTHY
MENTIONED ALREADY TONIGHT THEY
ESPECIALLY AND THEY'VE BEEN
CAN'T CONTINUE TO DRIVE HUGE
MENTIONED ALREADY TONIGHT THEY
VEHICLES ON SECOND HOMES AND
CAN'T CONTINUE TO DRIVE HUGE
BUY USELESS GOODS LIKE THERE'S
VEHICLES ON SECOND HOMES AND
NO TOMORROW.
BUY USELESS GOODS LIKE THERE'S
THE PLAN BY ITSELF WON'T CURE
NO TOMORROW.
OUR SICK CULTURE BUT IT SHOULD
THE PLAN BY ITSELF WON'T CURE
CALL IT OUT.
OUR SICK CULTURE BUT IT SHOULD
I KNOW THIS IS JUST A LAND USE
CALL IT OUT.
PLAN.
I KNOW THIS IS JUST A LAND USE
THANK THANK YOU MR. GROVER.
PLAN.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
THANK THANK YOU MR. GROVER.
CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
THE COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
>> MANAGER LEINERT DO WE HAVE
THE COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS WHO
>> MANAGER LEINERT DO WE HAVE
WISH TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS WHO
?
WISH TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
WE DO.
?
THANK YOU KIRK WESTFALL YOU CAN
WE DO.
ON MUTE AND ADDRESS THE
THANK YOU KIRK WESTFALL YOU CAN
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
ON MUTE AND ADDRESS THE
THREE MINUTES HIGH COMMISSION
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
FOR THIRTY FIVE DEPARTURE PLACE
THREE MINUTES HIGH COMMISSION
WITHIN A FIFTY YEAR OLD HOUSE
FOR THIRTY FIVE DEPARTURE PLACE
BUILT BY DEVELOPER AND I
WITHIN A FIFTY YEAR OLD HOUSE
WELCOME MY NEIGHBORS JUST FOR
BUILT BY DEVELOPER AND I
THE RECORD I JUST FIRST I JUST
WELCOME MY NEIGHBORS JUST FOR
WANT TO RESPOND TO SOME OF THE
THE RECORD I JUST FIRST I JUST
ASSERTIONS ABOUT NEW HOUSING
WANT TO RESPOND TO SOME OF THE
THAT HELPING AFFORDABILITY IF
ASSERTIONS ABOUT NEW HOUSING
IT HELPS FOR EXAMPLE A NEW CAR
THAT HELPING AFFORDABILITY IF
BECAUSE THESE CARS ARE MUCH
IT HELPS FOR EXAMPLE A NEW CAR
MORE AFFORDABLE AND AS AN
BECAUSE THESE CARS ARE MUCH
EXAMPLE DURING THE PANDEMIC
MORE AFFORDABLE AND AS AN
WITH THE SHORT NEW CAR
EXAMPLE DURING THE PANDEMIC
PRODUCTION PRETTY MUCH STOPPED
WITH THE SHORT NEW CAR
AND WE KNOW THAT HAPPENED TO
PRODUCTION PRETTY MUCH STOPPED
THE PRICE OF USED CARS THEY UP
AND WE KNOW THAT HAPPENED TO
I DON'T KNOW TWENTY THIRTY
THE PRICE OF USED CARS THEY UP
PERCENT.
I DON'T KNOW TWENTY THIRTY
THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING
PERCENT.
WITH HOUSING FOR THE PAST 50
THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING
YEARS OR SO UP UNTIL RECENTLY
WITH HOUSING FOR THE PAST 50
IS STIFLING SUPPLY AND THIS IS
YEARS OR SO UP UNTIL RECENTLY
CREATING THE AFFORDABILITY
IS STIFLING SUPPLY AND THIS IS
CRISIS THAT WE SEE.
CREATING THE AFFORDABILITY
WE'RE DEFINITELY MAKING SOME
CRISIS THAT WE SEE.
PROGRESS WHICH IS GREAT IF THE
WE'RE DEFINITELY MAKING SOME
MARKET GOES CYCLES DOWN AGAIN,
PROGRESS WHICH IS GREAT IF THE
YOU KNOW WHAT'S IT COULD IT
MARKET GOES CYCLES DOWN AGAIN,
COULD SLOW DOWN BUT WAS NEVER
YOU KNOW WHAT'S IT COULD IT
AFFORDABLE UNLESS THEY'RE
COULD SLOW DOWN BUT WAS NEVER
SUBSIDIZED DIRECTLY AND THAT'S
AFFORDABLE UNLESS THEY'RE
SOMETHING THAT ANN ARBOR IS
SUBSIDIZED DIRECTLY AND THAT'S
PROUD TO DO.
SOMETHING THAT ANN ARBOR IS
YOU KNOW, WE'VE SAID THE VAST
PROUD TO DO.
MAJORITY OF CITIES WE HAVE A
YOU KNOW, WE'VE SAID THE VAST
DEDICATED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MAJORITY OF CITIES WE HAVE A
TAX AND THAT'S LEVERAGED BY THE
DEDICATED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CITY TO BUILD DEDICATED
TAX AND THAT'S LEVERAGED BY THE
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE UNITS
CITY TO BUILD DEDICATED
WHICH IS FANTASTIC.
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE UNITS
>> AND SO VERY WELL WHEN
WHICH IS FANTASTIC.
HOUSING IS PRODUCED IT PROVIDES
>> AND SO VERY WELL WHEN
HOUSING FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN FOR
HOUSING IS PRODUCED IT PROVIDES
IT PROVIDES FOR HIGHER INCOME
HOUSING FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN FOR
PEOPLE, STUDENTS FROM HIGHER
IT PROVIDES FOR HIGHER INCOME
INCOME FAMILIES AND WHEN THEY
PEOPLE, STUDENTS FROM HIGHER
MOVE INTO THOSE BUILDINGS THEY
INCOME FAMILIES AND WHEN THEY
ARE NO LONGER COMPETING FOR THE
MOVE INTO THOSE BUILDINGS THEY
EXISTING HOUSING STOCK.
ARE NO LONGER COMPETING FOR THE
AND THIS IS JUST THIS HAS BEEN
EXISTING HOUSING STOCK.
WELL-DOCUMENTED MULTIPLE PEER
AND THIS IS JUST THIS HAS BEEN
REVIEWED RESEARCH PAPERS.
WELL-DOCUMENTED MULTIPLE PEER
PLEASE JUST YOU KNOW, I HOPE
REVIEWED RESEARCH PAPERS.
THE PEOPLE WILL TAKE A MINUTE
PLEASE JUST YOU KNOW, I HOPE
TO LOOK INTO ON THE TOPIC
THE PEOPLE WILL TAKE A MINUTE
OF THE THE COMPREHENSIVE
TO LOOK INTO ON THE TOPIC
BLINDEST PLAN.
OF THE THE COMPREHENSIVE
I WANT TO ECHO THE SENTIMENTS
BLINDEST PLAN.
OF MR. SLAVICH AND OTHERS.
I WANT TO ECHO THE SENTIMENTS
I REALLY APPRECIATED THE
OF MR. SLAVICH AND OTHERS.
PERSPECTIVES PROFESSORS LIVING
I REALLY APPRECIATED THE
IN KANSAS LAST WEEK, YOU KNOW,
PERSPECTIVES PROFESSORS LIVING
ADVOCATING FOR SIMPLICITY,
IN KANSAS LAST WEEK, YOU KNOW,
URGENCY AND MAYBE ITERATION,
ADVOCATING FOR SIMPLICITY,
YOU KNOW, DOING SOME THINGS,
URGENCY AND MAYBE ITERATION,
GETTING SOME THINGS IN PLACE
YOU KNOW, DOING SOME THINGS,
AND THEN ITERATING LATER DUE TO
GETTING SOME THINGS IN PLACE
THE URGENCY OF THE PROBLEM.
AND THEN ITERATING LATER DUE TO
I WOULD ADVOCATE FOR SETTING UP
THE URGENCY OF THE PROBLEM.
SOME QUESTIONS, YOU KNOW, AS
I WOULD ADVOCATE FOR SETTING UP
SOON AS POSSIBLE IN JANUARY TO
SOME QUESTIONS, YOU KNOW, AS
START WORKING ON YOU KNOW,
SOON AS POSSIBLE IN JANUARY TO
DOING SOME THOUGHT EXPERIMENTS
START WORKING ON YOU KNOW,
ABOUT DIFFERENT ZONES.
DOING SOME THOUGHT EXPERIMENTS
WE KNOW WE'RE GOING TO NEED
ABOUT DIFFERENT ZONES.
ZONES AND LEVELS.
WE KNOW WE'RE GOING TO NEED
WHAT TYPES ARE WHERE THE MAP
ZONES AND LEVELS.
FINALLY COMES OUT?
WHAT TYPES ARE WHERE THE MAP
I WOULD ADVOCATE FOR CREATING A
FINALLY COMES OUT?
ZONE WHETHER IT'S A BRAND NEW
I WOULD ADVOCATE FOR CREATING A
ONE EXPANDING ONE IN DC, ONE TO
ZONE WHETHER IT'S A BRAND NEW
COVER UP IN TRANSITION.
ONE EXPANDING ONE IN DC, ONE TO
>> BUT PLEASE JUST I WOULD URGE
COVER UP IN TRANSITION.
YOU TO DO THIS IN-HOUSE AND DO
>> BUT PLEASE JUST I WOULD URGE
IT WITH ALL DUE SPEED.
YOU TO DO THIS IN-HOUSE AND DO
>> THANKS.
IT WITH ALL DUE SPEED.
THANK YOU
.
DENIS BURKE.
>> YOU CAN UNMUTED AND ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES.
>> YES, HELLO MY NAME IS
DENNIS.
I LIVE ON SOFTWORKS AVENUE IN
ANN ARBOR.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
I WANTED TO CMENT BRIEFLY.
I NEED 414 SOUTH MAIN STREET
ASHTON YES.
REQUEST TO APPEAR MR. BURNETT I
THINK WE WILL.
>> IS THAT THE AGENDA?
NO, NO, NO.
I'M BEING CORRECTED.
>> YOU ARE FREE TO SPEAK ABOUT
IT RIGHT NOW.
PLEASE FORGIVE MY INTERRUPTION
AND MR. LEONARD, CAN YOU
RESTORE HIS TIME DENHA GO AHEAD
MR. BURKE.
>> IN REGARDS TO 414 SOUTH MAIN
STREET ACTUALLY MEUS PUDI
REQUEST I THINK TO PRIMARILY
REMODEL BUT IT'S NOW AN OFFICE
BUILDING AND TRANSITION IT INTO
HOUSING.
I KNOW THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE CITY IS TRYING
TO IMPROVE THE SUPPLY
OF HOUSING PRIMARILY IN THE
CITY CENTER.
I CAN APPRECIATE THAT I'M NOT
AGAINST HIGHER DENSITY HOUSING
BUT I WOULD CAUTION TWO THINGS
A NUMBER ONE ALL OUR PURSUIT
OF HOUSING FOR HOUSING SAKE IS
BASICALLY ATTEMPTING TO DO
SUPPLY SIDE ECONOMICS.
MANY ADMINISTRATIONS IN THIS
COUNTRY HAVE SOLD THE PUBLIC
SUPPLY SIDE ECONOMICS AND IT
DOESN'T REALLY WORK.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW HOW MUCH
RENTS HAVE DECLINED IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR SINCE ALL THE HIGH
RISES HAVE GONE UP AND HOW MUCH
THE COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
SPACE HAS BEEN OCCUPIED AND
ABOUT THOSE RENTS ARE GOING FOR
NOW ON MAIN STREET AND OTHER
BUSINESS AREAS OF TOWN GIVEN
THE NEW STOREFRONTS THAT WERE
AHEAD OF IT, SOME OF THESE HIGH
RISES I THINK ALSO YOU NEED TO
CONSIDER THAT IF WE CONVERT
EVERYTHING IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
TO HOUSING, WHERE WILL PEOPLE
WORK ALL OF A SUDDEN LIVING
HERE THAT THEY WON'T BE WORKING
HERE.
THEY'LL BE COMMUTING OUT TO GO
TO WORK AND COMMUTING BACK IN
AND EVENING.
SO YOU NEED TO LOOK AT A
BALANCED APPROACH HERE.
HOW MUCH HOUSING, HOW MUCH
BUSINESS AND OFFICE SPACE, HOW
MUCH RETAIL SPACE AND SO ON AND
SO FORTH.
SO AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR LETTING
ME TALK.
I'M OPPOSED TO CONVERTING WHAT
IS NOW CURRENTLY OFFICE SPACE
INTO HOUSING SPACE BECAUSE WE
ALREADY HAVE MULTIPLE HIGH
RISES THAT ARE GETTING READY TO
GO UP AND I DON'T THINK WE NEED
TO LET A LITTLE BIT OF OFFICE
SPACE THAT WE HAVE IN THE
DOWNTOWN AREA BE CONVERTED TO
HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, JAMES.
>> TOMORROW YOU CAN COMMUTE AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
WELL, THANK YOU BRAD AND THANK
YOU COMMISSIONERS AND OUR
SPARKLING NATURAL FEATURES ARE
NOT SECONDARY CONSIDERATIONS.
THEY ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR
COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH, SAFETY AND QUALITY
OF LIFE.
ANY LONG TERM LAND PLAN THAT
WEAKENS THESE PROJECTIONS IS
MOVING IN THE WRONG DIRECTION.
ELIMINATING THE 2006 NATURAL
FEATURES LAND PLAN IN THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN IS
JUST NOT CONCERNING IN MY HE
WAS RECKLESS FOR NEARLY 20
YEARS AS BEING ONE OF THE
CITY'S BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL
SAFEGUARDS.
I THINK ITS RESIDENTS DESERVE
ANSWERS.
WHY IS THIS BEING ELIMINATED?
WHAT REPLACES IT?
WHO STANDS TO GAIN FROM IT?
THE DRAFT PLAN ALSO PRESENTS AN
INCOMPLETE AND MISLEADING
ACCOUNT OF OUR HISTORY.
THE 2003 GREEN TECHNOLOGIES
DESCRIBED AS FARMLAND OPEN
SPACE PRESERVATION OUTSIDE THE
CITY.
THAT'S TRUE.
YOU'RE MISSING A CRUCIAL
CHAPTER ONE THIRD OF THAT
KNOWLEDGE IS ALSO DEDICATED TO
ACQUIRING PARKLAND IN THE
NATURAL AREAS WITHIN OUR
NEEDINESS, OUR DESERTS, THE
PUBLIC RECORD AND THE
POSSIBILITIES IS AFFIRMED BY
ENGAGEMENT AND THE LAND PLAN
ONLINE SURVEY SUBSTITUTE BOARDS
DIGITAL VOTING TOOLS ARE HIGHLY
VULNERABLE TO MANIPULATION AND
NO WAY WE A CROSS SECTION
OF BANABA A SMALL HIGH
ORGANIZED GROUP CAN DOMINATE
THOSE TOOLS AND OFTEN DOES DOES
NOT.
PUBLIC INPUT IS MANUFACTURED
CONSENSUS.
FOR YEARS MANY RESIDENTS HAVE
SEEN THE PLANNING PROCESS
DOMINATED BY THE INNER CIRCLE
OF INSIDERS ALIGNED WITH
SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT INTERESTS
.
THE RESULT IS A DRAFT PLAN THAT
REFLECTS PREACHERMAN PRIORITIES
AND MINIMIZES ENVIRONMENTAL
SAFEGUARDS.
THIS IS NOT A COMMUNITY
PLANNING.
THIS IS AGENDA DRIVEN PLANNING.
THE DRAFT PLAN BOOKS TO ZERO.
BUT THAT LANGUAGE CAN DESPITE
THE FACT THAT SEVERAL PROPOSED
POLICIES WEAKEN NATURAL
FEATURES PROTECTIONS AND SOLAR
DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT
CORRESPONDING ECOLOGICAL
ACCOUNTABILITY, WE'RE ALREADY
WITNESSING THE CONSEQUENCES TO
LARGE SCALE PROJECTS,
INFRASTRUCTURE GENERATOR
SYSTEMS AND JUST LONG TERM
SERVICE TO TAXPAYERS.
FOR THESE REASONS I URGE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO PASS THE
PLAN WHICH IS A TRANSPARENT
BOTTOM-UP FINDING EVERYTHING
FOR ALL NEIGHBORHOODS, LONG
TERM RESIDENTS AND THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN EXCLUDED FROM PAST
DECISIONS.
WE NEED TO PROCESS DRIVEN BY
THE COMMUNITY NOT BY
PREDETERMINED NARRATIVE.
YOU HAVE CREATED A GOOD SOLID
FOUNDATION BUILD FROM NOW ON
THE PEOPLE OF ZIMBABWE DO THE
WORK OF SHAPING THEIR FUTURE
NOW THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING
MY REMARKS.
>> THANK YOU AND HAVE A GOOD
EVENING.
>> THANK YOU
.
CURTIS DAVIS YOU CANNOT MUTE
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES
.
>> CURTIS DAVIS YOU CANNOT MUTE
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
GO AHEAD
.
CURTIS DAVIS
MR. DAVIS, YOU CAN ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS UNMUTED
BUT IT DOES NOT APPEAR TO BE
ABLE TO HEAR AUDIO.
CAN YOU COME BACK?
>> THAT IS THE LAST AND IF MR.
DAVIS
MR. DAVIS, IF YOU ARE
ABLE TO EITHER REJOIN OR GET
YOUR AUDIO WORKING, COULD YOU
JUST RAISE YOUR HAND?
BUT FOR NOW I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AND MOVE US TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER SEVEN WHICH
IS COMMISSION COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COMMISSIONERS.
>> ARE THERE ANY WE'LL START
WITH COMMISSIONER ADAMS, SIR.
>> A COUPLE OF THINGS JUST TO
CLARIFY THE RECORD ON THE DENHA
WE HEARD FROM ONE COMMENTER
TONIGHT WHO CHARACTERIZED OUR
REZONING DECISION IN CONNECTION
WITH THAT PROJECT AS PREMISED
ON OR MATERIALLY GROUNDED IN
THE PLAN THAT WE ARE STILL VERY
MUCH CONSIDERING AND REVISING.
THAT'S NOT TRUE AND I WOULD
ENCOURAGE ANYONE TROUBLED BY
THOSE COMMENTS TO GO BACK AND
WATCH THE DISCUSSION ON THAT ON
THAT PROJECT THE STANDARD FOR
REZONING UNDER THE UDC.
WE'RE LOOKING FOR FACTS THAT
INDICATE WE NEED TO CORRECT AN
ERROR.
THERE'S BEEN A CHANGE TO
MUNICIPAL POLICY OR A CHANGE OR
CHANGING CONDITIONS IN A
PARTICULAR AREA OR IN THE
MUNICIPALITY GENERALLY.
WE TOOK NOTICE OF A LOT
OF FACTS DURING OUR DISCUSSION.
AMONG THEM THE FACT THAT THAT
WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THAT
WHOLE AREA HAS BEEN CHANGING
PRETTY DRAMATICALLY SINCE THE
LAST LAND USE PLAN WAS APPROVED
IN 2009.
YOU KNOW, FOR ME IT WAS ALSO
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS WHICH ARE FINAL AND
APPROVED CITY POLICY CHANGES
WHICH WERE PASSED LAST YEAR.
SO THERE WERE GROUNDS FOR
APPROVING A PROJECT THAT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH A DRAFT
PLAN.
NOTHING WAS PRESUPPOSED.
I ALSO WANT TO AS I HAVE A
COUPLE OF OCCASIONS TALK ABOUT
AND RESPOND TO COMMENTS,
RESPOND TO MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WHO ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE PACE AND SCALE OF CHANGE
THAT WILL BE CAUSED BY THE OR
RECOMMENDED BY THE PLAN THAT
WE'RE CONSIDERING.
THE PLAN DOESN'T CAUSE ANYTHING
TO OCCUR.
IT JUST IT RECOMMENDS CHANGES.
WE ALL AVAILABLE EVIDENCE THAT
WE HAVE AND I'M GOING ALL THE
WAY BACK TO WHEN THIS BODY
BEGAN DELIBERATIONS BACK AND IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN JANUARY OF LAST
YEAR OF THIS YEAR RATHER FEELS
LIKE LAST YEAR ALL AVAILABLE
EVIDENCE THAT WE HAVE SUPPORTS
THE CONCLUSION THAT ANY CHANGE
THAT THIS PLAN IS RECOMMENDING
FOR RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
WILL BE GRADUAL.
>> IT WILL BE CONSTRAINED BY
MARKET FORCES.
IT WILL ALSO BE CONSTRAINED BY
LEGAL MECHANISMS THAT THIS PLAN
EITHER DOESN'T PROPOSE TO ALTER
OR CANNOT LEGALLY MODIFY,
CANNOT PROPOSE TO LEGALLY
MODIFY ON APRIL 1ST.
AND I'VE MENTIONED HIS COMMENTS
A COUPLE OF TIMES BUT I KNOW
THERE ARE NEW VOICES IN THE
ROOM.
ON APRIL 1ST WE HEARD FROM
PROFESSOR NOAH CASES FROM THE
MICHIGAN LAW SCHOOL WHO TALKED
ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE OF THE
CITY OF HOUSTON FOLLOWING A
MUCH MORE SWEEPING AND RADICAL
SERIES OF LAND USE CHANGES AND
THE IMPACT OF THOSE CHANGES ON
THE ACTUAL BUILT ENVIRONMENT
WERE EXTRAORDINARILY GRADUAL.
THE NUMBER AND I'M GOING OFF
MEMORY HERE I THINK HE QUOTED
SOMETHING LIKE THIRTEEN HUNDRED
NEW MULTIFAMILY UNITS OVER A 10
TO 15 YEAR PERIOD IN THE FOURTH
LARGEST MUNICIPALITY IN THE
COUNTRY.
THAT'S REALLY GRADUAL CHANGE
BORDERING ON HARD TO NOTICE.
I HAVE TO IMAGINE IF YOU'RE
LIVING THERE SO THAT'S THE
AFFIRMATIVE CASE.
WHAT EVIDENCE DO WE HAVE AND WE
HAVE A WHOLE HOUSING APPENDIX
THAT WE WERE VERY CAREFUL TO
ATTACH TO THE PLAN THAT HAS
CITATIONS TO A LOT OF THIS
WORK.
>> ON THE OTHER HAND, WE HAVE
NO EVIDENCE FROM THIS CITY OR
ELSEWHERE THAT LEGALIZING
TRIPLEX IS UP TO THREE STORIES
WILL LEAD TO TO RAPID OR EVEN
MODERATELY PACED CHANGE IN OUR
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE'VE BEEN HOLDING MEETINGS FOR
AGAIN ALMOST A FULL YEAR ON
THIS AND I DON'T THINK WE'VE
BEEN PRESENTED WITH A SINGLE
EXAMPLE OF ANY CITY THAT'S
CONDUCTED A COMPARABLE OR EVEN
NOT COMPARABLE CHANGE TO ITS
LAND USE POLICY THAT HAS
EXPERIENCED DESTRUCTIVE
PROBLEMATIC RADICAL CHANGE IN
ITS NEIGHBORHOODS.
IF THERE IS SUCH AN EXAMPLE, I
WOULD LOVE TO BE PRESENTED WITH
BUT WE HAVE NOT SEEN IT.
THE OTHER EXAMPLE THAT I WOULD
PROVIDE MY NEIGHBORHOOD PERMITS
DUPLEXES TODAY UP TO THIRTY
FEET TALL BY RIGHT WE HAVE
ENORMOUS HOUSING PRESSURE IN
THIS COMMUNITY AND THERE HAS
BEEN ENOUGH TURNOVER IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IF ONCE WE
MAKE TRIPLEX AS IF WE MAKE IF
WE RECOMMEND TRIPLEX IS TO BE
PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD WOULD
THEORETICALLY BE AN EXAMPLE
OF THIS RADICAL DESTRUCTIVE
CHANGE TODAY BECAUSE WE PERMIT
DUPLEXES IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD TO
BE BUILT BY RIGHT.
THEY ARE VANISHINGLY RARE.
THEY ARE BUILT FROM TIME TO
TIME.
BUT WHAT I SEE MORE OFTEN THAN
THAT OUR HOUSE IS BEING KNOCKED
DOWN AND THE LARGEST POSSIBLE
SINGLE FAMILY HOME BUILT IN ITS
PLACE SO THAT'S NOT WE'RE NOT
SEEING EVIDENCE OF THIS IN THE
TEST CASES WE HAVE LOCALLY SO
I'M NOT PERSUADED BY IT AND I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
EVIDENCE FOR IT AND I THINK
THAT OUGHT TO GIVE A LOT
OF COMFORT TO TO THE
INDIVIDUALS IN THIS ROOM AND
WHO HAVE COMMENTED ABOUT
CONCERNS ABOUT, YOU KNOW, FEARS
THAT THEY HAVE THAT WE JUST
DON'T WE DON'T HAVE ANY
EVIDENCE OF THAT.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
ADAMS.
DO YOU HAVE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, COMMISSIONER
MILLS AND THEN FOLLOWED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH?
>> I WANT TO AGAIN THANK FOLKS
FOR COMING OUT AND
PARTICIPATING TONIGHT WHETHER
YOU'VE BEEN HERE BEFORE AND ARE
PATIENT WITH US REPEATING YOUR
COMMENTS.
APPRECIATE OR THIS IS YOUR
FIRST TIME COMMENTING.
THANK YOU FOR COMING OUT AND
PARTICIPATING IN ONE OF THE
SPECIFIC COMMENTS THAT CAUGHT
MY ATTENTION AND IS ONE OF MY
ONE OF THE THINGS IN THE PLAN
THAT I THINK IS REALLY, REALLY
INTERESTING IS ON PAGE TWENTY
OF DRAFT THREE AND THIS IS A
MAP PULLED FROM CENSUS
INFORMATION SHOWING COMMUTING
PATTERNS.
>> IT WAS IN REFERENCE TO A
COMMENT ABOUT JOBS AND WHAT
THIS MEANS JUST FOR EVERYONE'S
AWARENESS IN CASE YOU DON'T
HAVE IT IN FRONT OF YOU RIGHT
NOW.
>> SEVENTEEN THOUSAND PEOPLE
LIVE AND WORK IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
>> THEIR HOMES ARE HERE AND
THAT'S WHERE THEY WORK EVERY
DAY RIGHT NOW WE HAVE ALMOST
NINETEEN THOUSAND THAT COMMUTE
OUT TO JOBS ELSEWHERE WHICH
SEEMS LIKE A LOT BUT NOT IN
COMPARISON TO THE NUMBER THAT
COMMUTE IN IT'S SEVENTY SIX AND
A HALF THOUSAND.
SO RIGHT NOW WE ARE DEFINITELY
A PLACE THAT HAS MORE JOBS,
MORE COMMUTING IN THAN WE HAVE
RESIDENCES.
>> SO I THIS ACTUALLY THIS
INFORMATION YOU CAN PULL UP FOR
ANY MUNICIPALITY TOWNSHIP TO
AND I FIND IT REALLY
INTERESTING TO HELP GROUND YOU
KNOW JUST BECAUSE PEOPLE LIVE
HERE DOESN'T MEAN THEY WILL
NECESSARILY WORK HERE AND WE
ARE A PLACE THAT DOES HAVE A
WHOLE LOT MORE JOBS ALREADY
THAN WE HAVE HOUSING AND SO AND
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY THE CASE
IN IN ALL OF OUR NEIGHBORING IN
HIS PALLETIZE.
>> BUT AGAIN, THANK YOU ALL FOR
PARTICIPATING TONIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER DISH, I ALSO
WANT TO THANK YOU ALL FOR
COMING TONIGHT AND
PARTICIPATING IT IS OBVIOUS
THAT YOU HAD SPENT A LOT
OF TIME PREPARING YOUR COMMENTS
AND THEY WERE VERY THOUGHTFUL.
I WANTED TO I HAD A COUPLE
QUESTIONS JUST I THINK ONE
QUESTION FOR STAFF REFERENCE
WAS MADE TO NINE FOR LINCOLN
BENDING THE ZONING LAWS.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THAT
WAS A DOUBLE PARCEL THAT WAS
TWO PARCELS OR IT'S A SINGLE
PARCEL I HAD OF A LOT AREA TO
ACCOMMODATE TO DUPLEXES AND FOR
UNITS DOES NOT REQUIRE SIPKIN
REVIEW UNDER OUR CODE .
>> THANK YOU.
SO IT WASN'T A LOT BUT EITHER
IT JUST WAS BIG ENOUGH TO
ACCOMMODATE TO TO HAVE A LOT
OF INCREASE FOR THAT WE HAVE
LOTS BUT INQUIRIES HAPPENING
ALL OVER BUT IN THAT CASE MY
RECOLLECTION WAS THAT THE LOT
SIZE PERMITTED IT EXCEEDED
TWICE THE MINIMUM STRUCTURE
AREA REQUIREMENTS.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I WANT TO
ONE OF THE COMMENTERS TONIGHT
MADE A COMMENT ABOUT WE'RE
ENGAGING IN SUPPLY SIDE
ECONOMICS AND MAKING THAT SAME
IN A VERY PEJORATIVE WAY AND
WE'VE HEARD COMMENT A NUMBER
OF TIMES AND I WANT TO PUSH
BACK ON THAT A LITTLE BIT.
>> SUPPLY SIDE ECONOMICS WAS AN
ECONOMIC THEORY PROMOTED BY THE
REAGAN ADMINISTRATION THAT
BASICALLY ARGUED WE SHOULD
REDUCE TAXES AND REGULATIONS
FOR THE WEALTHIEST OF THE
WEALTHY BECAUSE THEN THEY'LL
GET WEALTHIER AND THEY WILL
PASS DOWN THAT WEALTH AND IT'LL
CRANK UP THE ECONOMY AND WE'LL
ALL BE BETTER OFF.
AND IT'S TRUE THAT THAT I THINK
PRETTY ARGUABLY DOESN'T WORK.
>> IT HASN'T WORKED VERY WELL.
>> WHAT FOLKS ARE DOING IS
ARGUING THAT BECAUSE DEVELOPERS
BUILDING HOMES IN ANN ARBOR
MAKE A PROFIT, THEY'RE GREEDY.
WE'VE BEEN HEARING THAT A LOT
TOO AND THEY'RE TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF US TO TO GENERATE
PROFITS AND MOVE ON EVERYBODY
WHO LIVES IN THIS CITY IN A
HOME THAT WAS NOT BUILT BY
AVALON HOUSING OR THE CITY'S
PUBLIC PUBLICLY SUBSIDIZED
HOUSING FUNDS WAS BUILT BY A
DEVELOPER WHO MADE MONEY MAKING
THE HOME.
YOU CAN'T DO PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT MAKING A
PROFIT.
IT'S NOT THE CASE THAT EVERY
DEVELOPER WHO CAN FIND A WAY TO
MAKE MONEY ON BUILDING HOMES IS
GREEDY OR TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THE CITY OR USING US BECAUSE
OF THAT.
AND IT'S NOT SUPPLY SIDE
ECONOMICS TO RECOGNIZE THAT
PRIVATE DEVELOPERS ARE GOING TO
NEED TO MAKE A PROFIT ON
BUILDING TO BE ABLE TO MAKE
THAT HAPPEN.
SO I JUST WANT TO PUSH BACK ON
THE IDEA THAT JUST BECAUSE
DEVELOPERS MAKE MONEY BUILDING
HOMES THEY'RE NECESSARILY
GREEDY AND WE'RE ALL GOING TO
CRASH.
AND I THINK PLANNING
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE
POINTED OUT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
MAKING THAT SAME CLAIM SINCE
ANN ARBOR STARTED AS A CITY
IT'S ALWAYS THE EVIL DEVELOPERS
WHO ARE DESTROYING THE CITY
WHEN YOU COMBINE THAT CONCERN
ABOUT GREEDY DEVELOPERS WITH
SUPPLY SIDE ECONOMICS, YOU LEFT
WITH THE CONCLUSION THAT WE'RE
JUST TRYING TO HELP THE
DEVELOPERS MAKE MONEY ON SUPPLY
SIDE ECONOMICS AND THAT WILL
ALL BE BETTER OFF.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT'S GOING ON
HERE.
IT'S PEOPLE HAVE BEEN POINTING
OUT ONE OF THE DRIVERS NOT THE
ONLY DRIVER.
THERE'S SO MANY THINGS GOING ON
BUT ONE OF THE DRIVERS LEADING
TO OUR LACK OF AFFORDABLE AND
MARKET FORCE HOUSING IS THAT WE
HAVE CONSTRAINED THE ABILITY TO
BUILD NEW MARKET FOR US HOUSING
.
IT'S A SUPPLY CONSTRAINT
PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT A SUPPLY SIDE ECONOMIC
THEORY THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PROMOTE HERE.
IT'S JUST RECOGNIZING WHEN YOU
HAVE A LIMITED SUPPLY
OF HOUSING, THE PRICE
OF HOUSING GOES UP AND THAT
MAKES IT MORE UNAFFORDABLE OR
LESS AFFORDABLE.
SO I RECOGNIZE PEOPLE'S
CONCERNS.
I PERSONALLY MYSELF WORRIED
ABOUT PRIVATE EQUITY FIRMS
COMING IN LOOKING FOR A WAY TO
MAKE MONEY THAT TO MY MIND
THAT'S A REAL CONCERN THAT WE
OUGHT TO BE WORRIED ABOUT.
BUT THE FACT THAT DEVELOPERS
NEED TO MAKE MONEY TO BUILD
HOMES IS NOT IN ITSELF EVIL AND
IT'S NOT A PROBLEM.
AND THE FACT THAT WE ARE
RELYING ON THE PRIVATE MARKET
TO PRODUCE HOMES DOESN'T MEAN
THAT WE'RE IN FAVOR OF SUPPLY
SIDE ECONOMICS AND THAT WE'RE
DRIVING THAT THAT POLITICAL
IDEOLOGY.
SO I WANT TO SEPARATE SOME
OF THAT DIALOG OUT AND GET
FOLKS TO RECOGNIZE AND I'VE
SAID THIS BEFORE TOO WE DON'T
LIVE IN A COMMUNIST PLAN
SOCIETY WHERE THE PUBLIC BUILDS
ALL OF THE HOUSING FOR
EVERYBODY WE RELY ON THE
PRIVATE MARKET TO PROVIDE
HOUSING AND WE'RE ONLY GOING TO
HOUSING RELYING ON THE PRIVATE
MARKET IF PRIVATE DEVELOPERS
CAN MAKE MONEY BUILDING HOMES.
SO THAT'S THE THAT'S THE
PROCESS THAT WE'RE LIVING IN.
THERE'S A WHOLE LOT OF OTHER
STUFF GOING ON HERE TOO WITH
DEMOGRAPHICS AND OTHER THINGS
THAT WE NEED TO WORRY ABOUT AND
WE CAN ONLY DO WHAT WE CAN WORK
ON.
AND IT IS THE CASE THAT ANN
ARBOR HAS A MILLAGE.
WE ARE PROVIDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN A WAY THAT A LOT
OF OTHER CITIES AREN'T.
WE'RE TAKING SO MANY OTHER
STEPS TO TRY AND DEAL WITH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IT'S NOT JUST LOW INCOME
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WE'RE
WORRIED ABOUT.
IT'S THE WHOLE MARKET FOR US.
THE WHOLE ARRAY OF HOUSING
TYPES AND MARKET FORCE HOUSING
WE'RE REALLY STRUGGLING WITH.
SO THE PLAN IS TRYING TO TACKLE
A WHOLE LOT OF PROBLEMS
SIMULTANEOUSLY AND WORK
TOGETHER SO I RECOGNIZE FOLKS
CONCERNS.
I GET THE CONCERN ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD I LIVE
IN A HOME.
I UNDERSTAND WHERE FOLKS ARE
COMING FROM BUT I THINK IT'S
ALSO THE CASE THAT IT DOESN'T
HELP WHEN THERE'S A WHOLE LOT
OF PEJORATIVE THROWN AT US THAT
YOU'RE JUST HELPING DEVELOPERS
TAKE OVER THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND YOU'RE PROMOTING A SUPPLY
SIDE ECONOMICS IDEOLOGY THAT'S
NOT WHAT'S GOING ON HERE
PLEASE.
SO KIND OF STEP BACK A LITTLE
BIT AND THINK AND THE OTHER
POINT I'LL JUST MAKE IS
EVERYBODY WHO COMES IN HERE AND
SAYS YOU'RE NOT LISTENING TO
THE CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR
BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT LISTENING TO
ME I DON'T THINK ARE LISTENING
TO THE OTHER FOLKS WHO ARE
COMING UP AND SAYING YOU'RE NOT
LISTENING TO THE CITY CITIZEN
VANDERBURG BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT
LISTENING TO ME BECAUSE
EVERYBODY'S HITTING US WITH
OPPOSITE COMMENTS AND WE'RE IN
THE POSITION OF HAVING TO
RECONCILE THEM.
SO JUST
BECAUSE WE CAN'T DO
EVERYTHING THAT EVERYBODY WANTS
US TO DO DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE NOT
LISTENING TO ANYBODY.
WE'RE TRYING TO DO OUR BEST TO
RECONCILE THE COMPETING NEEDS
THAT ARE COMING DOWN ON TOP
OF THE CITY.
SO I'LL SAY AGAIN IT IS IT'S I
REPEAT THE THANK YOU FOR FOLKS
TO COME OUT AND COME TO SPEND
YOUR EVENING COMING OUT AND
TALK TO US.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR THAT
DIALOG BUT I WANT FOLKS TO
RECOGNIZE THE DIFFICULTY
OF THIS STUFF.
WE'RE EASY.
IT WOULDN'T BE HARD.
THAT WAS A REALLY KIND OF DUMB
STATEMENT TO MAKE THIS IS A
REALLY HARD PROCESS TO WORK
THROUGH.
>> IT'S NOT AN EASY SOLUTION.
WE REALLY ARE TRYING TO
RECONCILE COMPETING POSITION.
SO I SAY AGAIN TO A LITTLE BIT
OF GRACE PLEASE.
WE'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO RECONCILE ALL OF THESE
COMPETING DEMANDS AND KIND
OF THINK THROUGH CAREFULLY THE
ASSERTIONS THAT ARE BEING MADE
AND WHAT THE REAL CONNECTIONS
ARE.
>> THAT WAS A LITTLE BIT
PROFESSORIAL.
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME BE A
PROFESSOR A LITTLE BIT.
>> THANK YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
SO JUST A COUPLE OF NOTES FOR
ME AND I'M GOING TO TAKE THE
PRIVILEGE OF THE CHAIR TO TALK
TO THE AUDIENCE DIRECTLY FOR A
MOMENT.
MR. GARBER, ARE YOU STAYING
UNTIL WE GET TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE?
OK, MR. MONROE, ARE YOU STAYING
UNTIL WE GET TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE?
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL RESERVE MY COMMENTS BASED
ON THINGS YOU SAID TO THAT TIME
SO THAT WE CAN KEEP GOING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THAT WAS ONE AND TWO OH, MR.
LEONARD, IS IT IS IT TRUE THAT
TODAY MY NEIGHBOR COULD TEAR
DOWN THEIR HOUSE AND BUILD UP
TO THE PERMITTED HOUSE AND THE
PERMITTED SETBACKS ON THEIR
PROPERTY?
>> YES.
IS IT TRUE THAT THE CITY HAS A
CITYWIDE CORRECT ME IF THE
PHRASING IS INCORRECT, WHETHER
IT'S CITYWIDE OR A ZONING WIDE
HEIGHT BONUS FOR SUSTAINABLE OR
ALL ELECTRIC DEVELOPMENTS WHERE
OVER 60 PERCENT OF THE SITE HAS
RENEWABLE ENERGY ON IT.
DID I GET ALL OF THAT RIGHT
CURRENTLY ACROSS THE CITY ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT WE HAVE A
HEIGHT BONUS OF UP TO THIRTY
PERCENT THAT FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
SIXTY PERCENT OF THE ROOF AREA
OR AN EQUIVALENT AMOUNT
OF SOLAR ENERGY IS PROVIDED AND
THE BUILDING IS FULLY ELECTRIC
UNLESS THERE IS DOCUMENTATION
AND THAT IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO
PROVIDE THAT LEVEL
OF ELECTRICITY.
SO PUTTING THOSE TWO THINGS
TOGETHER IF OUR ONE C HAS A
HEIGHT LIMIT OF THIRTY FEET AND
THEY ARE ABLE TO OBTAIN A
THIRTY PERCENT HEIGHT BONUS OH
DON'T LET ME DO THIS MATH IT
IT'S ONLY NINE FEET SO THEY
THEY CAN'T GO TO FORTY BUT THEY
COULD GO TO THIRTY NINE AND
THAT COULD HAPPEN NEXT DOOR IN
OUR ONE C TODAY CORRECT.
OK THANK THE OTHER PIECE THAT I
WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT WAS ABOUT
THE COMMENTS SO BECAUSE THE
SEGMENT DRAFT OR EXCUSE ME THIS
THIRD DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE WE ARE
USING OUR ENGAGE WEBSITE TO
RECEIVE IT.
WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO CHRONICLE
THE COMMENTS A LITTLE BIT
EASIER BECAUSE THEY COME TO US
IN A SPREADSHEET AND BY MY
COUNT WE'VE RECEIVED SIX
HUNDRED AND FORTY EIGHT
COMMENTS THE FIRST ROUND WE
RECEIVED ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FIVE BEFORE THE DEADLINE IN
NOVEMBER AND BEFORE TONIGHT'S
DEADLINE WE RECEIVED FIVE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY THREE.
I'M PROBABLY PLUS OR MINUS FIVE
SO IF YOU'RE HOLDING ME GIVE ME
A LITTLE BIT OF GRACE THERE
WHICH MEANS WE RECEIVED A
LITTLE OVER SIX HUNDRED AND
FORTY COMMENTS.
MANY OF US AT THIS TABLE HAVE
READ EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THOSE
COMMENTS OR HAVE SCANNED
THROUGH THEM TO TRY TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE ARE HEARING.
BY MY COUNT THERE ARE A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WHO SUPPORT THE PLAN THAT HAVE
COMMENTED I RAN SOME NUMBERS
AGAINST IT IN NOVEMBER THE
SUPPORT WAS OVER FORTY PERCENT.
THERE WERE ONLY 15 PERCENT THAT
HAD COMMENTS DIRECTLY AGAINST
THE PLAN AND BY MY COUNT IN
DECEMBER IT WAS THIRTY PERCENT
IN FAVOR AND ONLY 19 PERCENT
AGAINST THE PLAN WITH FIFTY ONE
PERCENT YOU KNOW SORT
OF SITTING SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN
THOSE NUMBERS AND DECEMBER
ABOUT FORTY FIVE PERCENT
SITTING SOMEWHERE BETWEEN IN
NOVEMBER.
>> SO I SAY THAT AND GIVE YOU
THOSE STATISTICS WHICH ARE
HELPFUL FOR ME TO UNDERSTAND
THAT WE ARE RECEIVING A LOT
OF COMMENT AND WE ARE
SYNTHESIZING A LOT OF COMMENT
AND OFTEN THAT COMMENT RESULTS
IN CHANGES AT THE LAST
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD IN
NOVEMBER WE MADE CHANGES TO THE
PLAN TONIGHT ONCE WE MOVE
THROUGH THE NEXT TWO ITEMS
OF THE AGENDA, THIS TABLE WILL
LIKELY MAKE CHANGES TO THE PLAN
AND IT IS DIRECTLY AS A RESULT
OF THE COMMENTS THAT WE HAVE
HEARD BECAUSE WE DO LISTEN WE
DO SYNTHESIZE THEM.
WE DO TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT WE
CAN PUT IN.
I DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY
FOREGONE CONCLUSIONS AND I WILL
SAY THAT AS SOMEONE WHO WANTED
THINGS IN THE PLAN THAT ARE NOT
IN THE PLAN, I SIT AT THE TABLE
BUT YET I AM ONE VOTE AND I
HAVE BEEN VOTED DOWN LIKE MY
COLLEAGUE COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
HE IS ALSO ONE VOTE.
HE HAS BEEN VOTED DOWN BY THE
TABLE BECAUSE WE DO NOT HAVE A
HIVE MIND.
WE ARE ALL COMING TO THIS
CONVERSATION FROM OUR SOCIAL
LOCATION AND WE BRING WITH US
THE STORIES OF OUR FAMILIES AND
WHERE WE LIVE AND THE PEOPLE
THAT WE HEAR FROM AND WE ARE
TRYING AS BEST WE CAN WITH THE
INFORMATION THAT IS IN FRONT
OF US TO PRESENT A PLAN THAT WE
THINK WILL WORK FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO OFFER
THAT AS THOSE HAVE COME UP AND
SAID THAT WE'RE NOT LISTENING.
I WOULD I FIND THAT TO BE HARD
TO RECONCILE WITH THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE.
AND THEN JUST TO GIVE YOU ONE
MORE DATA POINT, I THINK IN
THIS PACKET, MR. WINTER,
THERE'S A TRACT CHANGES
DOCUMENT, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I THINK PART OF THIS EVENING
IS TO REFLECT BACK THE SOME
OF THE CHANGES THAT YOU TALKED
ABOUT AS TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE HEARING TAKING THOSE
ACCURATELY IN ADDITION TO ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION THAT COMES UP
TONIGHT.
>> YES.
SO YOU CAN TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
IT'S AN REGISTAR SO YOU HAVE TO
ACCESS IT VIA THE WEB.
IT'S A TWO GUVS REGISTER.COM.
YOU GO TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO THE CALENDAR AND
THEN TO THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEN YOU FIND
TODAY'S AGENDA AND THEN ON THE
AGENDA YOU CAN SEE ALL OF THE
ATTACHMENTS THERE ARE OFTEN PDF
,SOMETIMES THEIR EXCEL
SPREADSHEETS AND YOU CAN
DOWNLOAD THAT AND YOU CAN SEE
THAT WE'VE HEARD YOUR CHANGES.
WE'VE INCORPORATED YOUR CHANGES
AND STAFF ARE TRACKING THE
CHANGES THAT WE HAVE.
AND THEN FINALLY I WILL ADD
THAT I PERSONALLY ASKED STAFF
TO PREPARE A MEMO WHICH IS IN
TODAY'S PACKET TO TALK ABOUT
HOW WE WERE RECEIVING THE
FEEDBACK WHERE WE ARE IN THE
PROCESS AND HOW WE PLAN TO MOVE
FORWARD SO THAT THERE IS LESS
AMBIGUITY AROUND WHERE WE ARE
AND WHAT WE'RE DOING.
>> SO I I HOPE THOSE THINGS ARE
THEY THEY SERVE AS EVIDENCE IN
A SENSE THAT THIS IS A
COMMUNITY DRIVEN PLAN.
OBVIOUSLY THOSE OF US AT THE
TABLE ARE THE ONES WHO ARE
DRIVING THIS PLAN BUT WE ARE
NOT DOING THAT WITH COMPLETE
DISREGARD TO WHAT WE'RE HEARING
FROM THE PUBLIC AND WITH THAT I
WILL GIVE US A FIVE MINUTE
RECESS AND THEN WE'LL COME BACK
AND CONTINUE OUR AGENDA
RIGHT.
IF I COULD HAVE OUR OUR FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS RETURN TO THE
TABLE ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR AND
FIVE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WE CAN START.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
SO WE ARE NOW AT AGENDA ITEM
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
NUMBER EIGHT PUBLIC HEARINGS
SO WE ARE NOW AT AGENDA ITEM
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
NUMBER EIGHT PUBLIC HEARINGS
MEETING.
SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
>> IT SAYS THERE ARE NONE.
MEETING.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> IT SAYS THERE ARE NONE.
MANAGER LEONARD?
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
MANAGER LEONARD?
THANK YOU, MANAGER LEONARD.
>> ONE HUNDRED PERCENT.
THAT TAKES AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
THANK YOU, MANAGER LEONARD.
NINE NEW BUSINESS.
THAT TAKES AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
THERE IS NONE ON TO TEN A
NINE NEW BUSINESS.
REGULAR BUSINESS.
THERE IS NONE ON TO TEN A
THIS IS SEVEN ONE FIVE SEVEN
REGULAR BUSINESS.
ONE SEVEN IS HERE ON REZONING
THIS IS SEVEN ONE FIVE SEVEN
WITH AREA PLAN WAIVER REQUESTS
ONE SEVEN IS HERE ON REZONING
R E Z TWO FIVE ZERO ZERO ZERO
WITH AREA PLAN WAIVER REQUESTS
THREE A PETITION TO REZONE 715
R E Z TWO FIVE ZERO ZERO ZERO
AND 717 E HERE ON STREET FROM
THREE A PETITION TO REZONE 715
PUDI PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT TO
AND 717 E HERE ON STREET FROM
OUR FORESE MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
PUDI PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT TO
DISTRICT TO PERMIT THE BUILDING
OUR FORESE MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
TO BE CONVERTED FROM OFFICE TO
DISTRICT TO PERMIT THE BUILDING
RESIDENTIAL USE NO DEVELOPMENT
TO BE CONVERTED FROM OFFICE TO
HAS BEEN PROPOSED AND AN AREA
RESIDENTIAL USE NO DEVELOPMENT
PLAN WAIVER IS REQUESTED.
HAS BEEN PROPOSED AND AN AREA
WE WILL START WITH THE
PLAN WAIVER IS REQUESTED.
PETITIONER PRESENTATION WHICH
WE WILL START WITH THE
WILL BE TEN MINUTES UP TO TEN
PETITIONER PRESENTATION WHICH
MINUTES AND THEN WE WILL HAVE A
WILL BE TEN MINUTES UP TO TEN
STAFF PRESENTATION FOLLOWED BY
MINUTES AND THEN WE WILL HAVE A
A PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN THE
STAFF PRESENTATION FOLLOWED BY
COMMISSION WILL CONSIDER THE
A PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN THE
MOTION.
COMMISSION WILL CONSIDER THE
>> WE'LL START WITH THE
MOTION.
PETITIONERS IF YOU ALL ALREADY
EVENING MY NAME IS EMILY
PLACELESS AND I REPRESENT THE
THE PROPERTY OWNER.
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I'M
GOING TO BE BRIEF IN MY
PRESENTATION BECAUSE I THINK
THIS IS A FAIRLY SIMPLE AND
MODEST REQUEST.
BUT AS SOME IN THIS ROOM KNOW
THAT I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN
PLANNING AND ZONING LONG ENOUGH
TO REALIZE THAT NOTHING IS
SIMPLE AND IT MAY REQUIRE A LOT
OF DISCUSSION TO GET US WHERE
WE NEED TO BE.
I WANTED TO GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF HISTORY ON THE PROPERTY AT
TWENTY FIVE AT SEVEN FIFTEEN
SEVEN SEVENTEEN EAST HERE ON
BECAUSE I THINK IT HELPS PUT
THIS REZONING IN IN CONTEXT WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NORTHEAST
CORNER OF HURON IN AND NORTH
STATE STREET WHERE THE BLACK
OFFICE BUILDING HAS BEEN
LOCATED IN THE RENOVATED CHURCH
THAT CAMPUS WAS ESTABLISHED IN
THE MID 1980S AFTER THE CHURCH
VACATED AND IN FACT THERE WAS A
SMALL FIRE IN THE CHURCH THAT I
WATCHED AS AN UNDERGRADUATE FOR
MY ECONOMICS CLASS IN THE OLD
UNIVERSITY HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING
AND FOLLOWING THAT EVENT THE
CITY WAS VERY CONCERNED WITH
MAKING SURE THE CITY WAS THE
CHURCH WAS PRESERVED AND A PLAN
WAS HATCHED TO DEVELOP THE
HOPSIN BLACK CAMPUS AT THAT
LOCATION.
SO THE CHURCH HAS BEEN LOCATED
BEEN HOME TO THE ARCHITECTURAL
FIRM ALONG WITH THE OLD RECTORY
BUILDING.
WHAT WAS PULLED INTO THE PWD
PLAN WERE TO RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURES THAT HAD BEEN USED
AND OCCUPIED AS RENTAL
APARTMENTS FOR DECADES PRIOR TO
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HOPSIN
BLACK CAMPUS AS PART OF THAT
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT, A
RECIPROCAL EASEMENT WAS GRANTED
TO THE PROPERTY OWNER
OF SEVENTEEN FIFTEEN SEVEN
SEVENTEEN WHICH PROVIDES AN
ACCESS EASEMENT OFF OF NORTH
STATE STREET AND ALLOWS FOR THE
PARKING OF SIX VEHICLES BEHIND
THE TWO RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
IN TERMS OF THE PUDI THAT WAS
PUT IN PLACE BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IT WASEALLY THE
RENOVATION OF THE CHURCH
CONSISTENT WITH FEDERAL
REHABILITATION STANDARDS THAT
WAS CONSIDERED TO BE THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT OF THAT PARTICULAR PUDI
.
THERE'S NOTHING IN THE PUDI
APPROVAL THAT RELATES SPEAKS TO
THE TWO STRUCTURES THAT ARE THE
SUBJECT OF THE REZONING THE
SEATING.
SO THIS ISN'T THE FIRST ATTEMPT
TO CHANGE THE USE OF THOSE TWO
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES FROM
OFFICE TO BACK TO MULTIPLE
FAMILY OR AT LEAST THE ZONING
DISTRICT THAT MATCHES
EVERYTHING TO THE NORTH THERE
IS AN ATTEMPT IN 2015 TO MODIFY
THE PERIOD THAT COVERS THIS
PROPERTY TO ALLOW THE
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES TO BE
CONVERTED FROM OFFICE BACK TO
RESIDENTIAL.
THE PROPERTY OWNER AT THE TIME
WENT THROUGH THE PUBLIC.
THE CITY'S PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
PROCESS SENT OUT A PROXY ONLY
FIFTEEN HUNDRED POSTCARDS TO
ADDRESSES WITHIN ONE THOUSAND
FEET AND HAD THREE INTERESTED
PERSONS SHOW UP AT THE PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION MEETING AND
ACCORDING TO THE STAFF REPORT
FROM THE TIME ALL THREE
INTERESTED PERSONS SUPPORTED
THE MODIFICATION OF THE PUDI TO
ALLOW THE STRUCTURES TO BE
RETURNED TO TO RESIDENTIAL USE
THAT REZONING DID NOT WAS NOT
ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TONIGHT
HELD A PUBLIC HEARING AND
ENTERTAINED A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE PUDI MODIFICATION THOUGH
THAT MOTION BECAME STYMIED WHEN
IT WAS RECOGNIZED ONE OF THE
PROPERTY OWNERS WITHIN THE
PARTY DID NOT SUPPORT THE
REZONING AND THEREFORE WAS
EFFECTIVELY BLOCKING IT AND THE
PLANNING PERMISSION EVENTUALLY
PASSES A MOTION TO POSTPONE
ACTION ON THE PUDI MODIFICATION
UNTIL STAFF HAS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO FIGURE OUT HOW YOU MAKE A
CHANGE TO PUDI.
FAST FORWARD TEN YEARS LATER
WE'VE GOT IT FIGURED OUT HOW WE
CAN MAKE A CHANGE TO A PARTY
WITHOUT THE UNANIMOUS CONSENT
OF THE PROPERTY WHICH IS WHY WE
ARE HERE TONIGHT.
MY CLIENT ACTUALLY APPLIED TO
REZONE THIS PROPERTY IN THIS
MANNER BACK A YEAR AGO
IN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND THE
APPLICATION WAS REJECTED BY
STAFF BECAUSE OF THE THE THEN
TEXT OF THE UDC.
AND SO WE ARE BACK HERE TONIGHT
WITH A LIVE APPLICATION I THINK
JILL FOR HER HELP IN GETTING US
THROUGH THE PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION PROCESS WE SENT
OUT TO OVER 2000 POSTCARDS TO
ADDRESSES WITHIN A THOUSAND
FEET AND HAD TWO INTERESTED
PERSONS SHOW UP BOTH WHO AT THE
MEETING INDICATED THEIR SUPPORT
FOR FOR THIS REZONING.
REALLY THE PURPOSE OF THE
REZONING IS TO RESTORE THE
ZONING TO BE CONSISTENT WITH
THE ZONING TO THE NORTH.
IT'S A VERY MODEST CHANGE.
WE WOULD LIKE TO BE REMOVED
FROM THE PD HAVE THE PROPERTY
KNOWN TO OUR FORESE MATCHING
EVERYTHING THAT SURROUNDS IT SO
THAT THE BUILDINGS CAN BE
CONVERTED BACK TO RESIDENTIAL
USE.
THE PLAN WOULD BE AT MOST FOUR
APARTMENTS TO PER EACH HOUSE SO
REALLY FLATS BUT THERE IS THE
POTENTIAL THAT ONE OF THE
BUILDINGS WOULD BE RESTORED TO
A SINGLE USE SITUATION RATHER
THAN BEING DIVIDED INTO TWO
APARTMENTS.
WE'VE TALKED TO THE STAFF AND
THEY'VE SHARED THEIR DESIRE
THAT THE PROPERTY OWNER
INCORPORATE SOME BIKE STORAGE
AS PART OF THE PROJECT MOVING
FORWARD WHICH OF COURSE WE'RE
HAPPY TO TO DO AND IT WILL BE A
PART OF THE OVERALL
REDEVELOPMENT OF THE PROJECT.
SHOULD WE BE SUCCESSFUL IN
MOVING THE ZONING BACK TO
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL?
>> THAT CONCLUDES MY MY
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU SO MUCH PLANNER
THATCHER.
>> I ONLY HAVE A FEW DISPARATE
THOUGHTS TO ADD TO FIRST THIS
ENTIRE SITE AS THE PARTY STANDS
NOW IS IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND AS SUCH
THESE ARE CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURES SO THE SITE CAN'T BE
REDEVELOPED.
THERE'S NOT A DANGER THAT THE
HOUSE THAT'S THERE NOW WOULD BE
TORN DOWN AND SOMETHING BIGGER
WOULD BE BUILT IN ITS PLACE.
I THINK THAT THERE WERE SOME
RESIDENTS THAT WERE A LITTLE
BIT CONFUSED ABOUT THAT.
SO I HOPE THAT I HOPE THAT THEY
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE IS NO
DEVELOPMENT WHATSOEVER EXCEPT
ON THE INTERIOR THE BUILDING TO
CHANGE IT BACK TO RESIDENTIAL
PROPOSED.
THE CURRENT PADDYS LANGUAGE IS
I SAID ARCHAIC IN MY STAFF
REPORT.
I THINK THAT'S A POLITE WAY TO
PUT IT.
IT'S THERE ARE NO SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS THIS IS VERY EARLY IN THE
LAND OF PDS AND THE THING THE
ONE LINE OF THE THE PUDI
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT'S
IMPORTANT IS THE FIRST ONE THAT
SAYS BUILDING SHALL BE LIMITED
TO PROFESSIONAL OFFICE USE.
>> THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO CHANGE TODAY.
>> IF THIS BUILDING IS RIZOS
AND THE SITE WILL STILL BE PART
OF A SITE PLAN PROJECT BUT IT
WILL NOT BE PART THE PUDI
ZONING DISTRICT.
SO THERE IS AN APPROVED SITE
PLAN THAT WOULD HAVE TWO
DIFFERENT VOTING DISTRICTS ON
IT WHICH IS NOT UNHEARD OF .
>> IT'S JUST A LITTLE BIT
AWKWARD BUT SO ANY IMPROVEMENTS
THAT ARE SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN
AS IT IS TODAY LIKE THERE MAY
BE LANDSCAPING, THINGS LIKE
THAT WHERE THE PARKING IS LAID
OUT THAT WOULD STILL BE IN FULL
FORCE IF THIS ZONING HAS
CHANGED THE SITE PLAN STILL
THERE STILL VALID ALSO IF IT'S
REZONE TO OUR FORESEE THE SITE
WILL BECOME NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE IT WON'T MEET THE SIDE
SETBACK REQUIREMENT OF TWELVE
FEET REALLY NOT CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
THERE ARE A LOT
OF NONCONFORMING SETBACKS IN
OUR FORESEE DISTRICT IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I MEAN THE NEIGHBORHOOD WAS
BUILT AND THEN THE AIR FORCE
WAS IMPOSED UPON IT AND THE
HOUSES WERE ALREADY THERE AND
LIKE THESE HOUSES WERE BUILT IN
THE EIGHTIES.
>> SO LET'S SEE IT'S I SAID
IT'S NOT VISUALLY INTERRUPTING
THE THE THE HISTORIC PATTERN
OF HOUSES BY CHANGING THE
ZONING FINALLY THE THE CITY
COUNCIL ORDINANCE THAT THE THE
APPLICANT REFERENCED PASSED BY
CITY COUNCIL IN JUNE TO ALLOW
PUDI DISTRICT WITHOUT REQUIRING
CONSENT OF ALL PARCEL OWNERS.
>> IT'S JUST ONE SENTENCE THAT
WAS THROWN IN THERE THAT MOST
OF YOU ARE PROBABLY WELL AWARE
OF .
>> SO THAT'S THIS IS THE FIRST
PETITION THAT IS APPLYING UNDER
THAT NEW U.D. LANGUAGE TO TRY
TO CHANGE A PORTION OF A SITE
TO A NEW ZONING DISTRICT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
PLANNER THATCHER.
I WILL INVITE THE PUBLIC TO A
PUBLIC HEARING YOU HAVE A SEAT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT IN
CHAMBERS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
YOU CAN PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
PHONE OR USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE IF ON ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND END OUR MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF ON ZOOM YOU'LL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN
CHAMBERS OR ON ZOOME PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> I SEE THAT YOU ARE HERE MR
CROCKET SO WHY DON'T WE START
WITH YOU FIVE OR SIX KINGSLY
INTERESTINGLY IT WAS CHRISTENED
ME MY WIFE AND I OR THE TWO
PEOPLE WHO ATTENDED THE MEETING
AT THE PUBLIC HEARING AND CHRIS
IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE FOURTH
WARD.
I'M THE COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
OF THE LAW AND WE STRONGLY
SUPPORT THIS PROJECT FOR A
NUMBER OF REASONS.
NOT LONG AGO INTERESTINGLY WE
WERE HERE IN FAVOR OF THE
CONVERSION OF THE MALE SHOP
OVER TO HOUSING AND WERE VERY
PLEASED THAT IT'S WITHIN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT SORT OF MEETS ALL THE
CRITERIA.
I MEAN THIS IS SORT OF A NO
BRAINER.
I MEAN SWITCHING HOUSING OFFICE
TO HOUSING, MAINTAIN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT STATUS OF THE
HOMES.
WE'RE JUST VERY, VERY PLEASED.
BUT I DO ALSO WANT TO SPEND A
FEW MINUTES COMMENTING ON THE
LARGER TASK OF CONVERTING
OFFICE SPACE DOWNTOWN BECAUSE
WE RECENTLY A GROUP OF US
RECENTLY TALKED TO A PROPER
OFFICE BUILDING OWNER AND WHO
SAID THAT HE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
A CONVERT OFFICE SPACE TO
RESIDENTIAL.
BUT THE THE RED TAPE AND THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT MADE IT
VERY DIFFICULT AND I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE IS A WAY OF THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT COMING UP
WITH SOME GUIDELINES TO HELP
OFFICE SPACE DOWNTOWN GET
CONVERTED TO RESIDENTIAL TO
MAKE IT A LITTLE EASIER.
I I'M HOPING THAT THAT PROCESS
WILL GO SMOOTHLY HERE.
SO WE ARE STRONGLY IN FAVOR
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT AND THANK
YOU VERY THANK YOU.
>> ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ FOURTEEN
THIRTY LAS VEGAS DRIVE.
I SUPPORT THIS.
WE ARE IN THE HOUSING CRISIS
NOT IN OFFICE SPACE CRISIS IN
ANN ARBOR AND I DON'T SEE ANY
PROBLEM WITH CONVERTING OFFICE
SPACE TO HOUSING WHEN IT CAN BE
DONE SO GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> THANK YOU.
CHAIRMAN KENT GARBER AGAIN.
TWENTY EIGHT HAVE EVER HELD
COURT LIKE MR. CROCKETT AND MR.
YANKOVICH.
I WAS PREPARED EARLIER TO FULLY
SUPPORT THIS PROJECT.
THEN I DID A ROUTINE CHECK
OF THE PROPERTY ONLINE SOKI
ALAOUI I THINK HE'S HERE
TONIGHT AND HIS COMPANY
MICHIGAN RENTAL BUT JUST SAY
THERE ARE MULTIPLE U OF M SUB
REDDIT THREAD DEDICATED SOLELY
TO MR. ALLAWI AND CHICKEN
RENTAL AND THEIR MANAGEMENT
OF THEIR PROPERTIES AND THAT HE
HAS ACHIEVED A CERTAIN LEVEL
OF FAME AMONG THE CITY'S
RENTERS FOR SAID MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES.
NOW MALCONTENTS TEND TO BE THE
ONES WHO POST ONLINE.
SO I INTO FIFTEENTH DISTRICT
COURT RECORDS AND I FOUND PAGES
AND PAGES OF PAGES OF CITY
CITATIONS FOR VARIOUS
CODE VIOLATIONS AND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS IN FINES LEVIED
AGAINST MICHIGAN RENTAL AND MR.
ALLAWI AND YEAH THEY CONTINUE.
THERE'S RECENTLY THE CITY
CHARGED MR. ALLAWI OR CITED HIM
FOR VIOLATING THE CITY'S EARLY
RENTAL LEASING ORDINANCE AND
THAT CASE IS SCHEDULED FOR A
HEARING IN JANUARY.
THIS I THINK IS THE DEFENSE
ATTORNEY I GUESS I DON'T KNOW
HOW RELEVANT THIS IS TO
REZONING THIS PROPERTY BUT I
PERSONALLY DON'T FEEL
COMFORTABLE HAVING REVIEWED THE
RECORD EVEN SUPERFICIALLY
ADDING TO THE RENTAL PORTFOLIO
OF THIS PARTICULAR LOCAL
LANDLORD JUST BASED ON WHAT
I'VE SEEN.
SO I JUST I KNOW THAT THIS WILL
PROBABLY SAIL THROUGH BUT IT'S
JUST REGRETTABLE THAT, YOU
KNOW, THE WHAT I'VE SEEN IN THE
RECORDS TO DATE AND I JUST
WANTED TO BRING COMMISSION'S
ATTENTION TO THAT.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIS MATTER?
MANAGER LEONARD, DO WE HAVE ANY
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
NO HANDS RAISED?
OH, I SPOKE TO NOT TOO SOON.
ALEX LOWE, YOU CAN UNMUTED
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
THIS IS ALEX NOTIFIED THREE TO
PITTSVILLE BOULEVARD.
AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THE
FACT THAT THAT THIS WILL BECOME
A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
SHOWS A MAJOR ISSUE WITH OUR
SIDE STEP ACCRUALS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. LO.
NO OTHER HANDS RAISED AGAIN
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
MOTION.
>> THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY WAIVES THE
AREA PLAN REQUIREMENT AS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE TO
NINE
SEVEN EIGHT EXCUSE ME A
AND FIVE TO NINE DOT SEVEN DOT
B OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE BECAUSE NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED AND
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE ZONING
OF SEVEN ONE FIVE AND SEVEN ONE
SEVEN E HURON STREET TO R FOR C
MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WHO WOULD
LIKE TO KICK US OFF.
>> LOOKS LIKE IT'S MILLS EARLY.
OK IT'LL BE COMMISSIONER MILLS
THANKS.
>> I WANT TO START AT THE END
WHICH IS ABOUT THE
NONCONFORMING THAT WAS THE LAST
COMMENT THAT STUCK IN MY MIND
AND I ALSO APPRECIATE THE
COMPARISON TABLE AS ALWAYS.
>> I LOVE THE TABLES.
I'M CURIOUS IT WAS NOTED THAT
THE SIDE SAT BACK IS IS ONE
OF IS IN YOUR REPORT THAT MAKES
IT NONCONFORMING.
BUT MY READ OF THE TABLE IS
THAT IT DOESN'T HAVE ENOUGH
GROSS LOT AREA EITHER.
>> WHAT IS THAT PROBLEMATIC IS
THAT WHAT IS THE IMPLICATION
OF THAT?
>> YOU ARE CORRECT THAT IT'S
ANOTHER NONCONFORMITY BUT SINCE
THERE'S A STRUCTURE ALREADY
EXISTING THAT THEY'RE NOT GOING
TO EXPAND THEN WE JUST LOOK AT
THE LOT AREA TO LOOK AT THE
NUMBER OF UNITS THAT WILL BE
ALLOWED WITHIN IT.
>> OK, THIS WERE A BLANK SITE
AND SOMETHING NEW ARE BEING
BUILT.
>> WE WOULD TREAT IT
DIFFERENTLY.
YOU COULDN'T BUILD ANYTHING ON
IT IF IT WERE A BLANK SITE.
RIGHT.
OR YOU SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
>> SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> SUPER.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE I
WAS READING THE TABLE RIGHT.
>> I THINK OVERALL THIS MAKES
SENSE CHANGING THE USE AND I I
DO REMEMBER PASSING OR
RECOMMENDING THE CHANGE TO THE
UDC TO ALLOW FOR UNITS OR FOR
PARTICULAR PARCELS WITHIN A PD
TO TO PULL OUT EFFECTIVELY
OF THE BEAUTY TO AMEND THE BODY
THAT WAY.
I APPRECIATE THE RESEARCH MR.
GARBER.
THAT YOU BROUGHT TO THIS TOO.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO DEAL WITH
THAT INFORMATION.
I'M NOT GOING TO LIE AND I
GUESS I WOULD PUT IT ON THE
DESK STAFF IS LIKE I DON'T KNOW
THAT WE WE DO SUCH A THING.
YEAH.
SO MY INITIAL REACTION IS
ZONING IS SET OUT IN THE UDC
ABOUT HOW WE SHOULD BE
CONSIDERING THAT AND THAT
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED BY ANY
APPLICANT.
WE TALK ABOUT THIS A LOT
ACTUALLY IN THE CONTEXT OF YOU
KNOW, TYPES OF BUSINESSES OR
THE RENT CHARGE.
WE I THINK WE HAVE TO BE VERY
CAREFUL TO BE THINKING ABOUT
THE LAND USE DECISIONS THAT WE
ARE MAKING AND THOSE LAND USE
DECISIONS SHOULDN'T BE
APPROPRIATE PERHAPS BASED ON
ONE OWNER VERSUS A VET BASED ON
ANOTHER OWNER.
WE DO INCENTIVIZE SOME THINGS
THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY AND THERE MIGHT
BE A CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP BUT
GENERALLY MY OFF MY INITIAL
REACTION THOSE ARE THE THE
APPLICANT IS ACTUALLY NOT THAT
SIGNIFICANT OF A FACTOR FOR A
REZONING DECISION.
IT IS WHAT THE PLAN CALLS FOR
IN THE CONTEXT CONTEXT OF WHERE
THAT IS.
WE COULD CERTAINLY POSE THE
SAME QUESTION AS IT ADVANCES
FROM THIS BODY TO CITY COUNCIL
IN THE EVENT THE LEGAL COUNCIL
WOULD HAVE ANY OTHER THOUGHTS
ON IT.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> THAT WAS THE WAY THAT YOU
ANSWERED WAS WHAT MY GUT HAD
BEEN TELLING ME.
ONE FINAL THING THE COMMENT
ABOUT CHALLENGES IN MODIFY
OFFICE SPACE TO BECOME
RESIDENTIAL.
>> HAVE YOU HEARD THIS?
I ASSUME AGAIN THIS ONCE UPON A
TIME I REMEMBER THIS COMING
INTO PLAY WITH PARKING.
>> REMEMBER THAT?
YEAH.
AND NOW WE DON'T HAVE PARKING.
SO I'M CURIOUS IF YOU'VE HEARD
ON WHAT SOME OF THE TRICKY
PARTS OF THAT ARE IN SHORT, I'M
NOT FAMILIAR WITH THOSE.
I COULD SPECULATE THAT THERE
ARE DIFFERENT BUILDING
CODE FACTORS THAT MIGHT OWN
OFFICE BUILDING MIGHT HAVE BEEN
BUILT TO THAT MAKE CAN MAKE
CHALLENGES TO MAYBE FIRE
SEPARATIONS THAT MIGHT BE
DIFFERENT REQUIREMENTS FOR A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING THAT'S
PURELY SPECULATIVE.
I'M HAPPY TO INQUIRE TO THE
BILLING DEPARTMENT THAT'S
SOMETHING YOU'RE INTERESTED IN
BUT I THINK IS AS MUCH AS WE
CAN SHARE THAT SHARE THAT
CONCERN RAISED WITH THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT, SEE IF
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THEY WANT
TO LOOK AT IN FUTURE.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OF THE
NEW BUILDING CODES IS TRYING TO
TO ADDRESS THIS AS WELL.
>> OK, I UM I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
WANT ME TO BRING IT UP IN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
THE REASON WE'VE TALKED BEFORE
ABOUT THINKING ABOUT WHEN
THERE'S STRUCTURED PARKING FOR
EXAMPLE MAKING THAT BUILT IN
SUCH A WAY THAT IT CAN BE
ADAPTABLE AND IF THERE IS
SOMETHING IT FEELS LIKE THIS IS
NOT NECESSARILY ZONING CONCERN
BUT IF THERE IS SOMETHING WHERE
ARE ZONING IN TERMS OF FLOOR I
MEAN I DON'T THINK THIS IS A
FLOOR HEIGHT ISSUE BUT IF
THERE'S ANYTHING THAT WE COULD
DO TO MAKE IT MORE ADAPTABLE, I
FEEL LIKE THAT'S WISE FOR US TO
KNOW.
>> YEAH, LET'S LEAVE THOSE LET
ME INQUIRE ABOUT THE APARTMENT
TO SEE WHAT CONVERSATIONS OR
AWARENESS THEY HAVE AND I CAN
REPORT BACK AND SEE WHERE YOU
WANT TO GO FROM THERE SUPER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER MILLS COMMISSIONER
NORD, THIS REQUEST MAKES GREAT
GOOD SENSE TO ME FOR THE
REASONS THAT MR. CROCKETT STOOD
UP AND JUST PUTS THIS PIECE
OF PROPERTY BACK INTO THE
LARGER DISTRICT THAT IT'S
SURROUNDED BY OR AT LEAST TO
THE NORTH, THEN IT MAKES SENSE
TO HAVE IT BE HOUSING WITH
REGARD TO MR. GARBER'S CONCERNS
ABOUT THE OWNER, I'M GOING TO
SAY THIS OUT LOUD AND FOR THE
RECORD I AM NOT THE CITY'S
LEGAL COUNSEL BUT IT'S A CORE
PRINCIPLE OF ZONING THAT YOU
ZOMBI USE NOT BY OWNERSHIP.
>> THE WHO THE OWNER IS
IRRELEVANT TO THIS DECISION.
THE QUESTION IS IS ARE CHANGE
CONDITIONS OR SOME OTHER FACTOR
THAT WOULD WARRANT REZONING?
I THINK THERE ARE IN THIS CASE
IT'S TROUBLING WHAT MR.
GARBER'S ARE TELLING US AND
HOPEFULLY THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WILL BE RESOLVED APPROPRIATELY
IN OTHER OTHER MATTERS BUT IT
SHOULD NOT INFLUENCE A DECISION
WE'RE MAKING HERE.
>> THE QUESTION IS, IS THIS THE
APPROPRIATE USE FOR THIS
PROPERTY?
SO GIVEN THAT I'M GOING TO VOTE
FOR IT, I THINK IT'S AN
APPROPRIATE REZONING REQUEST TO
MAKE COMMISSIONER SURE.
I ALSO SECOND THAT THE QUESTION
REALLY OF THE REZONING IS IS
THERE A CHANGE IN CONDITION IN
THE PARTICULAR AREA OR THE
MUNICIPALITY GENERALLY?
AND I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT
IS YES.
SO IT WAS ARTICULATED WELL IN
THE APPLICATION AND I AGREE
THAT THE LAND USE DECISION
SHOULD BE INDEPENDENT.
SO FOR THAT REASON I WILL BE
SUPPORTING THANK YOU.
>> ARE WE READY TO VOTE?
OH, COMMISSIONER ADAMS, THE
ONLY THING I WOULD ADD TO
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S COMMENTS
ABOUT MR. GARBER'S COMMENTS IS
AT INFORMALLY AS A PRACTICING
ADMINISTRATIVE ARM OF THIS KIND
OF STUFF COMES UP IN ONE
CONTEXT AND IT'S RELEVANT TO
ANOTHER ORGANIZATION WE'D SEE
SOME TYPE OF REFERRAL RATE FOR
ENFORCEMENT AND INVESTIGATION.
SOUNDS LIKE THAT'S ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
SO I'M NOT INCLINED TO CHASE IT
BUT THAT'S KIND OF HOW I THINK
IT SHOULD BE DISPOSED.
>> BUT THE REZONING IS
APPROPRIATE.
>> DID YOU WANT TO TAKE ANY
FORMAL ACTION THAT THIS BODY
WOULD RECOMMEND TO PLANNING
STAFF FOR ENFORCEMENT?
>> DOES THIS FIT INSIDE OF THE
ENFORCEMENT AREA OF PLANNING
HONESTLY FROM WHAT MR. CARVER
SAID, IT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT
OF ENFORCEMENT IS ALREADY
UNDERWAY BUT FOR OUR
EDIFICATION AND KNOWLEDGE I
COULD I NEED TO FIND A SUMMARY
OF WHAT WHAT THAT IS.
SURE.
I THINK WHAT I WAS ASKING WAS
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT AND I'M
SORRY I DIDN'T CORRECTLY STATE
MY QUESTION WHICH IS OFTEN WHEN
WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
SOMETHING AT THE TABLE, THE
QUESTION IS WHO IS THE
APPROPRIATE BODY WITHIN THE
CITY?
WHO DOES THAT ENFORCEMENT OFTEN
ITS STAFF BUT IT COMES THROUGH
A COMPLAINT AND THAT IT'S A
COMPLAINT INITIATION THAT THEN
CREATES THE ENFORCEMENT.
AND SO WHAT I THINK I WAS
ASKING TO PIGGYBACK A LITTLE
BIT OFF OF COMMISSIONER MILLS
AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS COMMENT
IS IT WOULD THIS IF THERE
WASN'T ALREADY A LEGAL
PROCEEDING HAPPENING AND A
MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC MADE THESE
CONCERNS TO US?
WHAT WOULD BE THE NORMAL COURSE
OF ACTION FOR US?
>> WOULD WE WOULD YOU RECOMMEND
THAT WE TAKE UP A FORMAL NOTE
AND REFER IT TO PLANNING STAFF
FOR REFERRAL OR WOULD YOU JUST
HEAR IT AND THEN TAKE IT AND
THEN REPORT BACK TO US JUST FOR
OUR EDIFICATION?
I THINK THAT'S WHERE I WAS
GOING WITH THE EDIFICATION PART
SO THAT WE WOULD UNDERSTAND
WHAT TO DO IN THE FUTURE.
>> SO MUCH OF OUR ENFORCEMENT
IS COMPLAINT DRIVEN.
THOSE COMPLAINTS COME FROM A
VARIETY OF SOURCES THE PLANNING
COMMISSION COULD SEEK US TO
INVESTIGATE SOMETHING OK
TYPICALLY OR THAT THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT WOULD INVESTIGATE
ZONING VIOLATIONS.
THE CITY ENFORCES A WIDE
VARIETY YOU HEARD REFERENCE TO
EARLY LEASING.
WE HAVE A RENTAL INSPECTION
REQUIREMENT.
WE HAVE A BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
SO THERE ARE DEPENDING ON WHAT
THE NATURE OF THAT THERE MIGHT
BE A VARIETY OF SOURCES BUT
ABSOLUTELY WHETHER IT'S THE
PLANNING COMMISSION OR PUBLIC,
WE HAVE A WIDE VARIETY OF WAYS
THAT THE CITY RECEIVED SUCH
INFORMATION AND THEY'RE
FOLLOWED UP WITH APPROPRIATELY
.
AND SO FOR THIS SPECIFIC CASE,
CAN I REQUEST WHAT I THINK
YOU'VE ALREADY AGREED TO WHICH
IS TO FIND OUT WHERE THIS IS
AND THEN JUST REPORT BACK TO
SPECIFIC PROPERTY?
>> I THINK SO JUST GIVE ANY
OUTSTANDING YEAH.
>> JUST THIS PROPERTY.
YES.
JUST SO THAT THIS BODY KNOWS
YOU DON'T MAKE THE FINAL
DECISION IN WITH REGARD TO THIS
.
WE'RE FORWARDING IT TO CITY
COUNCIL BUT IT WOULD JUST BE
HELPFUL SINCE IT WAS RAISED
HERE AND IF YOU COULD JUST
YEAH.
>> AND THAT COULD BE AN EMAIL
OR JUST A QUICK NOTICE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH THERE.
WELL COMPLAINTS WITH RESPECT TO
THIS SO THE PART WHERE YOU
STARTED IF I MAY I HAVE TO
YEAH.
SO I THINK WE'RE OK.
THANK YOU.
OK SO SO WE'RE GOING TO GO TO A
VOTE UNLESS THERE ARE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WHO WANT TO
CLARIFY ANYTHING.
OK MOTION AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER WHICH YES.
>> COMMISSIONER LEE.
>> YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES COMMISSIONER.
>> YES MOTION CARRIES A
RECOMMENDATION GOES ON TO CITY
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT TAKES US TO SEE ELEVEN A
OTHER BUSINESS HERE WE HAVE FOR
ONE FOR SOUTH MAIN STREET
ASHELY MEUS PUDI PRE PARTITION
CONFERENCE A PROPOSED AMENDMENT
TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
OF THE ASHLEY MEALS PUDI
PROPOSED CHANGES WOULD ALLOW
ALL PERMIT IT USES AND THE D
ONE DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT IN
THE HIGH RISE PORTION OF THE
SITE.
NO CHANGES ARE PROPOSED TO THE
SITE PLAN.
THE PUDI AND THE SITE PLAN WERE
ORIGINALLY APPROVED IN NINETEEN
NINETY NINE WE WILL HAVE A
PETITION OR PETITION FOLLOWED
BY A STAFF PRESENTATION BY
PLANNER MARLENE
.
GOOD EVENING MEMBERS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS SCOTT BUNZL.
I'M OF COUNSEL WITH THE LAW
FIRM OF DEVRY IBIZA.
ALSO WITH ME TODAY STEVE
CALBERT OVER HERE.
HE'S ONE OF THE OWNERS OF THE
PROPERTY THAT WE'RE DEALING
WITH SO I REPRESENT FOR ONE FOR
SELF-MADE MAIN LLC.
THEY OWN TWO OF THE CONDO UNITS
IN THE ASHLEY MEWS HIGH RISE
PORTION.
THEY OWN THE GROUND FLOOR AND
THEN FLOORS TWO THROUGH SEVEN
WHICH ARE QUAINTLY DESCRIBED IN
THE PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AS THE HIGH RISE
PORTION OF ASHLEY MIEUX BACK IN
THE DAY WHEN IT WAS MORE OF A
HIGH RISE WE ARE REQUESTING AND
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS
OF REQUESTING AN AMENDMENT TO
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
OF THE PUDI TO ALLOW THE D ONE
USES IN THE HIGH RISE PORTION
OF THE BUILDING WHAT BASICALLY
THIS WOULD DO WOULD BE TO ALLOW
USES SIMILAR TO ALL THE OTHER
D1 BUILDINGS ON MAIN STREET
ESSENTIALLY TO THE NORTH AS I'M
SURE YOU'LL SEE WITH A GRAPHIC
FROM THE PLANNER.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
WEST SIDE OF MAIN STREET JUST
SOUTH OF MADISON OR WILLIAM TO
THE NORTH OF THE PROPERTY, THE
GAS STATION AND THEN THE MAIN
STREET CORRIDOR TO THE SOUTH.
THE PROPERTY IS THE LOW RISE
PORTION OF THE PUDI THE
NEWS AND THEN TO THE SOUTH
OF THAT IS D TO ZONING AND THEN
BOTH EAST AND WEST OF THE
PROPERTY IT'S ALSO D TO ZONING
THE ORIGINAL PD.
THE REASON FOR IT IS BECAUSE
THAT PARCEL WAS DEVELOPED WITH
A MIX OF USES INCLUDING AN
UNDERGROUND PARKING STRUCTURE
AND THAT KIND OF COMBINATION
OF USES WAS NOT PERMITTED UNDER
THE ANY OF THE ZONING
REGULATIONS OR DISTRICTS I
SHOULD SAY THAT WERE IN EFFECT
BACK AT THAT TIME WHICH WAS IN
THE MID NINETIES.
SO THAT WAS THE REASON FOR THE
D AS YOU ARE AWARE, THE TALLER
BUILDING ON THE NORTH AND THEN
THE LOW RISE TO THE SOUTH, THAT
FORM WAS ACTUALLY CONSISTENT
WITH THE CITY DOCUMENTS IN
PLACE AT THE TIME WHERE YOU HAD
A STEP DOWN IN HEIGHT AND
DENSITY AS YOU MOVED AWAY FROM
THE MAIN STREET CORRIDOR AND SO
HAPPILY THE FORM OF THE PD
ACTUALLY MATCHES FAIRLY CLOSELY
WITH WHAT THE CITY HAS NOW
RISEN FROM THE INTO THE D ONE
AND D TO CATEGORIES WE ARE
PROPOSING OR THE DEVELOPER OR
THE OWNER IS PROPOSING NO
CHANGES TO THE SITE PLAN AT
ALL.
THIS PROPOSAL WOULD ONLY CHANGE
THE INTERIOR USES OF THE THE
HIGH RISE PORTION.
SO BECAUSE OF THAT THERE'S NO
REAL GRAPHICS BECAUSE THERE'S
NO CHANGE BEING PROPOSED.
WHEN THE PD WAS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED THAT ENTIRE FLOORS TWO
THREE SEVEN WERE ALL OFFICE
USES FOR AND IT'S UNREGULATED
SUBSIDIARY OBVIOUSLY WHEN COVID
HIT THAT OFFICE CORE WAS
VACATED AND WAS NOT USED BY
ANYBODY FOR SEVERAL YEARS DTG
REALIZED THAT THEY WERE NOT
GOING TO REPOPULATE THAT FOR
OFFICE USES AND SO THE CONDO
UNITS WERE PUT ON THE MARKET
AND PURCHASED BY FOUR ONE FOUR
SOUTH MAIN WHICH HAS A VARIETY
OF DEVELOPMENT EXPERIENCE BUT
WAS INTERESTED IN PUTTING IN
MULTIFAMILY USES IN THAT SPACE
THE PUDI TERMS FOR THE HIGH
RISE DID ALLOW FOR MULTIFAMILY
BUT YOU KNOW BACK IN 1999 WHEN
THIS WAS FINALIZED WE DIDN'T
REALIZE OR FORESEE THE VERY
DRAMATIC DROP IN DEMAND FOR
OFFICE USES OR THE INCREASE IN
DEMAND FOR RESIDENTIAL USES OR
A VARIETY OF RESIDENTIAL USES
THAT WE SEE NOW IN TOWN.
SO THAT IS THE REASON THAT
WE'RE SEEKING TO AMEND THE TEXT
TO ACCOMMODATE THE USES THAT
ARE ALLOWED IN D1 JUST FOR FUN
ZIS POLICIES WAS TALKING ABOUT
THE RESTART OF THE PD.
WE WERE THE SECOND ONE IN THE
QUEUE OF STARTING THIS PROCESS
AND IT WAS ACTUALLY THREE YEARS
AGO ALMOST TO THE DAY THAT I
WAS HERE MAKING THE SAME PRE
PETITION PRESENTATION
DISCUSSION OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
SUBSEQUENT TO THAT WE DID
SUBMIT AN APPLICATION BUT THEN
IT WAS STOPPED BY THE
DEPARTMENT WHILE IT WORKED
THROUGH THAT ISSUE OF WHO HAD
TO APPROVE AN APPLICATION IN
OUR CASE THE FORTY EIGHT
TOWNHOUSES THE SOUTH HAD BEEN
SOLD THE SEVERAL I DON'T KNOW
IF THEY'RE FOUR SIX UNITS
UPSTAIRS SO THERE WERE
ESSENTIALLY FIFTY I'M SORRY
FIFTY SIX OWNERS WITHIN THE PD.
CLEARLY WE WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO GET APPROVAL FROM ALL
OF THOSE PEOPLE TO PROCEED
EVENTUALLY.
AS YOU ARE AWARE THE CITY
COUNCIL TWEAK THAT LANGUAGE TO
MAKE CLEAR YOU DON'T NEED
EVERYONE'S APPROVAL WITHIN THE
PD AND SO NOW WE'RE STARTING
BACK THE PROCESS AND THEY SAID
WELL NOTWITHSTANDING THAT
YOU'VE ALREADY GOT AN
APPLICATION IN BECAUSE THREE
YEARS HAVE PASSED START AT THE
BEGINNING.
SO HERE WE ARE STARTING AT THE
BEGINNING WE'LL HAVE OUR
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION MEETING
THIS THURSDAY AND WE'LL SEE HOW
THAT GOES.
SO THAT'S BASICALLY IT WE'RE
REQUESTING AN EXPANSION OF THE
USES IN THE HIGH RISE PORTION
ONLY TO ALLOW FOR SIMPLICITY'S
SAKE ALL ONE USES THAT ARE
PERMITTED TO THE NORTH.
>> STEVE IS HERE IF HE THINKS I
MISSED ANYTHING AND THEN WE'RE
HAPPY TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
>> THANKS.
GREAT.
GOOD EVENING.
I THINK SCOTT DID A GREAT JOB.
I JUST WANT TO JUST REITERATE
THE THE PURPOSE OF THIS
REZONING TO THE ONE IS JUST
SIMPLY TO ALIGN THE ZONING WITH
EVERYBODY ON MAIN STREET MORE
OR LESS THAT THAT'S ESSENTIALLY
IT.
THE STRUCTURE ALREADY EXISTS.
WE'RE NOT CREATING ANY NEW
PHYSICAL IMPACTS OR FEATURES NO
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC, NO
INFRASTRUCTURE DEMANDS, NO
NOTHING AT ALL IT'S DOING IS
REMOVING THE OUTDATED PD
RESTRICTIONS THAT WERE TIED TO
A ONE TIME DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL
AND THAT'S IT.
SO HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS FROM ANYONE IF YOU
HAVE ANY.
GREAT.
WE'LL HAVE A STAFF PRESENTATION
AND IF WE HAVE QUESTIONS WE'LL
CALL YOU BACK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
PLANNER MARLENE COCHRAN, DO YOU
HAVE A PRESENTATION FOR US?
>> YOU AND I WILL JUST SHARE
SCREEN REALLY QUICK SO WE CAN
SEE JUST THE ZONING.
SO THIS IS A ZONING MAP THAT
THE ABA SHARED.
SO YOU CAN SEE THIS IS THE HIGH
RISE THE TOWER PORTION THAT IS
OUTLINED HERE IN THIS PUDI
DISTRICT AND WE ARE ON THE
CORNER ISH OF MAIN STREET AND
WILLIAM STREET.
>> OK, JUST A FEW GENERAL
REMINDERS ABOUT THE PUDI
PROCESS.
SO THIS IS A PRE PETITION
CONFERENCE WHICH IS A REQUIRED
STEP TO APPLY FOR AND RECEIVE
APPROVAL FOR A NEW PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS OR TO AMEND
EXISTING PD SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WHICH IS WHY WE'RE
HERE TONIGHT AND THEN TONIGHT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MAY
OFFER COMMENTS REGARDING THE
APPROPRIATENESS OF THE PROPOSED
LAND USES THE PROPOSALS
CONFORMANCE WITH THE ADOPTED
MASTER PLAN AND POLICIES AND
THE BENEFICIAL EFFECTS TO BE
ACHIEVED AND THAT'S FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT ELEVEN OF THE UDC AND
I'LL JUST ADD A COUPLE MORE
THINGS.
SO LIKE THE APPLICANT SAID,
THIS IS REALLY JUST ABOUT
AMENDING THE PUDI SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TO ALLOW FOR ALL
PERMITTED D ONE USES JUST IN
HIGH RISE PORTION NO CHANGES TO
THE LOW RISE PORTION AND NO
PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE SITE
PLAN.
THE ORIGINAL PUDI ZONING AND
SITE PLAN WERE APPROVED IN
OCTOBER 1999 AND SINCE THEN
THERE HAVE BEEN THREE CHANGES
TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL AMEND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
THESE WERE IN 2000, 2003 AND
2007 AND BOTH OF THOSE IN 2003
AND 2007 WERE FOR ADDING
PERMITTED USES TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS YOU
CAN SEE HERE TO THE PARCELS TO
THE NORTH ARE ZONED D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE AND TO THE EAST
WEST AND SOUTH THEY ARE ZONED D
TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE.
THE APPLICANT MENTIONED THAT
THIS WAS FIRST PROPOSED A FEW
YEARS AGO AND DID NOT MOVE
FORWARD BECAUSE OF THE
REQUIREMENTS AT THE TIME FOR
ALL OWNERS TO APPROVE ANY
MODIFICATIONS TO PD.
>> SO THAT HAS NOW CHANGED AND
THIS PETITION LIKE I SAID WOULD
CONSTITUTE THE THIRD REVISION
TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY
REGULATIONS THAT WOULD INCREASE
OR CHANGE THE PERMITTED USES IN
THE HIGH RISE BUILDING GET
THOSE TWO OTHER ONES WERE ALSO
JUST PERMITTED USES IN THE HIGH
RISE BUILDING THE INCREASED
FLEXIBILITY IN THE PROPOSED
LANGUAGE WOULD ALLOW FOR ALL
PERMITTED USES INCLUDING SHORT
TERM RENTALS AND THIS WAS ALSO
NOTED IN THE STAFF MEMO THAT
WAS PRESENTED AT THE PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT WAS HELD A FEW
YEARS AGO OVERALL THAT HAVE
INCLUDED IN THE STAFF REPORT
THE ORIGINAL FINDINGS FOR
BENEFITS IN THAT WERE INCLUDED
WITH THE ORIGINAL PD AND STAFF
DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT THE
PROPOSED CHANGES WOULD
NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE ORIGINAL
FINDINGS ESTABLISH THIS
DISTRICT.
THE STATE WOULD STILL BE
DEVELOPED WITH A MIXTURE
OF RETAIL, RESIDENTIAL AND
OFFICE USES IN THE DOWNTOWN AND
THE GOVERNMENT IS SURROUNDED BY
D1 AND D2 ZONING SO THAT
DOWNTOWN PERMITTED USES WOULD
BE APPROPRIATE.
I'D ALSO JUST LIKE TO NOTE THAT
THESE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
WERE ORIGINALLY WRITTEN ABOUT
TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO AND THE
WAY THAT WE WRITE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS NOW IS DIFFERENT
AND WE TRY TO MAKE THEM A
LITTLE BIT SIMPLER, SIMPLER AND
HAVE MORE FLEXIBILITY.
AND SO AS PART OF THIS STAFF IS
LIKELY TO SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
CHANGES THAT WOULD SIMPLIFY THE
LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION
MAINLY REVIEWING AND REMOVING
OUT-OF-DATE LANGUAGE THINGS
LIKE VEHICLE PARKING,
REFERENCES TO CHAPTERS THAT ARE
NOW NO LONGER CORRECT, THINGS
LIKE THAT.
AND I'LL ALSO NOTE THAT THE
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IS ALSO
CONSIDERING PROPOSING CHANGES
TO SECTION L AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND THEY ARE WORKING WITH
OWNERSHIP OF THE LOW RISE THE
TOWNHOUSES TO PROPOSE UPDATED
LANGUAGE THAT WOULD CLARIFY
THAT THE AFFORDABLE UNITS CAN
BE RENTED RATHER THAN JUST
OWNED.
>> SO THIS IS THE FIRST STEP IN
THE PROCESS EVEN THOUGH IT'S
JUST CHANGING THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS, THE PROCESS
REMAINS THE SAME AND THAT'S ALL
I HAVE RIGHT NOW.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
PLAN ON THE LINE COCHRAN.
APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION.
>> THERE IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT
OR PUBLIC HEARING SO AND THERE
IS NO VOTE.
>> SO WE WILL START OUR
DISCUSSION OF FROM HERE WHICH
PLANNING COMMISSIONER WOULD
LIKE TO KICK IT OFF OK,
COMMISSIONER MILLS THEN
COMMISSIONER DISH MAYBE THIS IS
A THEME I'M GOING TO START OFF
WHERE YOU JUST LEFT OFF WHICH
IS ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
I THINK THIS MAKES TONS
OF SENSE AND I MEAN THE
QUESTION IN MY MIND WAS AT WHAT
POINT CAN WE JUST TAKE PEDS AND
SAY WELL WE'RE JUST GOING TO
REZONE BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE
TO NECESSARILY ANSWER THAT.
>> BUT THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M JUST THINKING.
BUT THE QUESTION THAT I REALLY
HAD WAS ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMPONENT OF THIS AND I
DIDN'T READ FROM THE ORIGINAL
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS WHETHER IT
NEEDED TO BE IN THE LOWER THE
HIGH RISE AND I JUST WANTED TO
MAKE IT IS IN THE LOW, OK,
BECAUSE I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT'S NOT LOST
SOMEWHERE ALONG THE LINE.
>> SO AS LONG AS AND AND THAT
YOU TALKED ABOUT IT AND HE
NOTED THAT IN THE STAFF REPORT
BUT JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT THE CHANGES BECAUSE
THE POSSIBLE IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
IT'S NOT A HOUSING THAT COMES
HERE.
>> I MEAN THAT'S WHAT IT SOUNDS
LIKE, RIGHT?
>> BECAUSE THERE'S THAT OFFICE
BUT BUT BECAUSE WE'RE CHANGING
IN THE FUTURE THAT WOULD ALWAYS
BE THE CASE OR CHANGING IT TO
REFERENCE DAEWON WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT AS D ONE CHANGES
AND ONE ALLOWS FOR LOTS
OF THINGS, IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
THAT PART WOULDN'T BE SO I WAS
JUST HOUSING AT ALL POTENTIALLY
.
>> YEAH.
AND I'LL JUST CLARIFY SO THE
APPLICANT IS COMING TO US WITH
THESE SPECIFIC REQUESTS ABOUT
CHANGING THE PROPOSED USES AND
AS PART OF THAT THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IS WORKING
SEPARATELY ON THIS.
SO THIS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
STUFF ISN'T COMING FROM THE
APPLICANT.
THIS IS COMING SPECIFICALLY
FROM THE CITY'S ATTORNEY THE
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE WHO IS
WORKING ON THIS SEPARATELY.
AND SO ANY LANGUAGE THAT WOULD
BE PROPOSED TO CHANGE FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WOULD COME
FROM THE CITY ATTORNEY AND
WOULD GO THROUGH THEIR REVIEW
PROCESS AND THEY'RE THEY'RE
STILL WORKING ON IT, WHICH IS
WHY I DON'T HAVE TOO MANY
DETAILS.
BUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THEY'RE HAVING SOME ISSUES WITH
THE RENTAL VERSUS OWNERSHIP
ASPECT IN THE LANGUAGE AND
THAT'S WHAT THEY'D LIKE TO JUST
CLARIFY.
>> YEAH, IF I COULD JUST ADD A
LITTLE A LITTLE BIT TO THAT
RECENTLY ACTUALLY THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS TAKEN ACTION TO
ACQUIRE I THINK ONE OR TWO
POTENTIALLY THAT ARE AT LEAST
ONE OF THESE UNITS AND THE
BASED ON THE PD, THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THEM HAVE BEEN
SUCCESSFUL.
BUT WE HAVE HAD A COUPLE THAT
HAVE GOTTEN TO A POINT WHERE
THE CITY HAS DECIDED TO STEP IN
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T FULFILLING
THE AFFORDABLE OBLIGATIONS AS
ORIGINALLY CRAFTED.
SO I JUST WANT TO EMPHASIZE A
POINT THAT MARYANNA I THINK DID
A GREAT JOB OF IS UNRESOLVED AT
THIS POINT.
BUT WE WANT TO JUST BE
TRANSPARENT THAT THEY ARE
REALLY OWNER OCCUPIED FOCUS
UNITS AND PART OF OUR
RECOMMENDATION ULTIMATELY TO
YOU AND TO THE CITY COUNCIL
MIGHT BE TO JUST BROADEN THAT
TO GIVE MORE FLEXIBILITY FOR
THE SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATION
OF THOSE UNITS LIKELY NOT
PROHIBITING EITHER RENTAL OR
OWNERSHIP BUT MAKING SURE THAT
EXPLICITLY CLEAR THAT EITHER
WOULD BE POTENTIALLY A VIABLE
OUTCOME.
>> OK, THE ONLY OTHER THING
THAT I WOULD SUGGEST IS I THINK
IT MADE A LOT OF SENSE TO ALLOW
FOR SOME FLEXIBILITY WHERE
THERE ARE MULTIPLE OWNERS AND
THIS CHANGE IS NOT THE THING
THAT THE PETITIONERS BEFORE US
ARE ASKING FOR AND IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY APPLY TO THEIR
PARTICULAR PORTION OF IT.
>> AND SO I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU
THINK ABOUT THAT LIKE WELL TO
BE CLEAR, THE CHANGES THAT YOU
SEE ALLOW CHANGES TO THE
DISTRICT BUT WHAT'S IMPORTANT
IS WE STILL REQUIRE ALL
PROPERTY OWNERS TO SEEK A BODY
SO NOBODY CAN SEEK A BEAUTY
DESIGNATION FOR A PROPERTY THAT
IS THAT PROPERTY OWNER IS NOT
AN IN SUPPORT OF IT OR A PART
OF THAT APPLICATION AT LEAST.
>> BUT WHAT THIS DOES IS IT
ENABLES AN INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY
OWNER TO CONSIDER
MODIFICATIONS.
IT IS ULTIMATELY THE CITY'S
DISCRETION WHETHER OR NOT TO
GRANT THOSE WHETHER IT'S ONLY
SPECIFIC TO AN APPLICANT
INITIATING IT OR OTHER CHANGES
TO SO THAT IS AN OPTION.
IT'S AN ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
CLEAR OBSERVATION BUT IT'S THAT
SORT OF AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US
TO LOOK AT THAT LANGUAGE JUST
AS YOU SAID FOR SORT OF A
DIFFERENT PORTION OF PUDI.
>> OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT I
HEARD YOU ENTIRELY CORRECTLY,
MR. LEONARD, THAT YES, I AM
AWARE THAT WE THAT CITY HAS
ACQUIRED ONE AND PROBABLY HAS
ANOTHER PENDING TO ACQUIRE
BECAUSE THERE WERE ISSUES
OF COMPLIANCE WITH
AFFORDABILITY AND THAT IT
SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE SAYING THAT
THE OPTION TO MAKE THE
AFFORDABLE UNITS AVAILABLE AS
RENTAL OR OWNER OWNED UM MAY
MAKE IT EASIER TO ENFORCE
COMPLIANCE WITH PORTABILITY.
>> YES AND YES BECAUSE THAT
MIGHT PROVIDE MULTIPLE WAYS FOR
THE CITY TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> OK, UH HUH UH I JUST NEED TO
WRITE THAT DOWN.
OK, THAT'S GREAT.
THAT'S IT.
THAT'S BEEN ON MY MIND.
UM SO UH SO THEN SO HERE'S THE
THING THAT I'M LOOKING AT SO
IT'S WE HAVE A I MEAN WE ARE
LOOKING AT THIS AS A AS A UM
WELL IT'S A IT'S A REZONING
FROM A PD AND SOME OF THE
RATIONALE FOR THE REZONING IS
OFFERED THAT IT WOULD BE
CONSISTENT WITH OUR VARIOUS USE
PLANS, THE CITY'S VARIOUS
PLANS.
IT ENCOURAGES A DENSE LAND USE
THAT WILL FOSTER AN ACTIVE
STREET LIFE, ENCOURAGE
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES AND STRENGTHEN
STRENGTHEN THE DOWNTOWNS ROLE
AS AN URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT ALL SOUNDS GREAT TO ME.
THE PLAN IS TO CREATE A TWO
BEDROOM, ONE BEDROOM AND STUDIO
APARTMENTS WHILE STUDENTS WOULD
BE WELCOME TO LIVE THERE THEY
ARE NOT INCLUDING AMENITIES
ATTRACTIVE TO STUDENTS.
ALL OF THIS SOUNDS GOOD TO ME.
WHAT DOESN'T FALL IN MY
DEFINITION OF DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING IS EITHER A STUDENT
ORIENTED HIGH RISE AND IT'S NOT
TO SAY THAT I DON'T WANT MORE
OF THOSE BUT WE ARE SEEING AS
THE MARKET IS BRINGING THOSE
AND ALSO WELL AND SO THIS IS A
HIGH RISE.
SO WHAT WOULD MAKE IT DIVERSE
FOR ME?
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE MULTIFAMILY
RENTALS THAT ARE NOT TARGETING
STUDENTS.
THOSE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO
LIVE THERE.
I WOULD NOT AT ALL OBJECT TO A
PORTION OF THESE UNITS WHICH
WOULD BE ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
UNITS TAKING UP FLOORS TWO TO
SEVEN IT SOUNDS LIKE BEING
AVAILABLE AS STARS BUT I
WOULDN'T LOVE IF THEY ALL WERE
AND IS THERE ANY WAY NO.
I ASK FOR YOUR ADVICE ON MY GUT
FEELING THERE COULD I ASK A
CLARIFYING QUESTION BEFORE YOU
ANSWER SO I IT TOOK ME A MINUTE
TO TRACK WHERE YOU WERE GOING
AND THEN I GOT THERE SO I JUST
WANT A VALIDATE THAT I KNOW
WHERE YOU'RE GOING THE THE STAR
COMES UP BECAUSE IT'S A
PERMITTED USE AND D ONE WHERE
CURRENTLY IT IS NOT PERMITTED
IN THIS PUDI BECAUSE THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SO WHAT YOU
ARE CONCERNED ABOUT IS THE
SHIFT TO D ONE TO PERMIT IT
ALSO PERMITS THIS ADDITIONAL
USE AND NOW YOU WANT TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT OUR TOOLS ARE
TO POTENTIALLY LIMIT THAT RIGHT
IF OK YEAH BECAUSE WE ARE DOING
A REZONING I MEAN ORDINARILY IF
SOMETHING IS RIGHT DAEWON WE
HAVE NOTHING TO SAY ABOUT THIS
BUT THIS IS A REZONING AND SO I
AM ASKING HIM YES.
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY, THE
WISDOM, THE LACK OF WISDOM.
>> I JUST WANTED TO TRACK IT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH IT MAY NOT HAVE BEEN EASY
FOR EVERYONE TO BE BECAUSE NOT
EVERYONE HAS MEMORIZED THE UDC
LIKE COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER LEE JUST REALLY
QUICK CLARIFICATION QUESTION IS
THIS A IS THIS REZONING OR IS
THIS A AMENDMENT OF THE USE
PERMITTED USES WITHIN THE CITY
ITSELF?
>> WHO'S THE QUESTION WHO THE
PETITIONER IS?
>> ACTUALLY LET ME ASK STAFF
AND THEN I'LL ACTUALLY ALSO
YOU'LL COME HOME TO YOUR
QUESTION.
>> I HAVEN'T LOST IT.
SORRY.
CAN YOU REPEAT THAT?
SO IS THIS A REZONING FROM
PODDY TO D ONE ON THIS SIDE
OF THE PODIUM?
>> RIGHT.
SO IT'S NOT EXACTLY SO ACTUALLY
IT IS THE APPLICATION OF THE PD
REQUIREMENTS THAT I THINK IS
MORE APT AND APPLICABLE RATHER
THAN THE REZONING WE JUST
TALKED ABOUT.
>> SO THIS IS A PODDY AMENDMENT
EXPANDING OR EXPANDING THE
PERMITTED USES TO THINGS THAT
ARE PERMITTED WITHIN D ONE.
AND WITH THAT I KNOW THAT THE
PETITIONER WANTED TO INTERJECT
SO I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR FROM
THEM ABOUT ACTUALLY THEIR
INTENT BEHIND WHAT THEY SAID.
>> OK, SO HOLD ON FOR A SECOND
BECAUSE COMMISSIONER DISH HAD A
QUESTION TO STAFF DO YOU WANT
TO DEFER THAT TO LAW
COMMISSIONER ONLY TO ASK THAT
QUESTION?
>> I WILL DEFER THAT AND I WILL
SAY THAT SORRY THAT I
MISUNDERSTOOD THAT AND I'M
ALWAYS REALLY HAPPY FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION BECAUSE THERE'S
SO MANY DETAILS AND THAT'S ALL
THE MORE REASON WHY I GET TO
THINK ABOUT THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
THANK YOU.
IF I COULD ASK THE PETITIONER
JUST WHAT THEIR THOUGHTS ABOUT
THEIR INTENT FOR THE BUILDING
AND THEN ALSO IF YOU WANT TO
COMMENT ON THE PD RELATIVE TO
REZONING VERSUS THE EXPANSION
OF PERMITTED USES.
>> RIGHT.
SO FIRST SOMETHING THAT I GUESS
I DIDN'T MAKE MAKE CLEAR ENOUGH
IS STEVE AND HIS GROUP HAVE
ALREADY BEGUN THE PROCESS
OF CONVERTING THE OFFICE.
>> WE COMPLETED THAT THAT'S
BEEN OPERATING AS MULTIFAMILY
FOR OVER A YEAR.
SO I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY
JUST SEEM A LITTLE DISINGENUOUS
THAT EVERYBODY WAS HAVING THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT IT
WOULD BE AND THE NEW USE AND
IT'S ALREADY BEEN CONVERTED
JUST FOR THE RECORD AND AND IT
WAS ALLOWED.
>> CAN YOU SPEAK INTO THE
MICROPHONE?
SORRY IT WASN'T ALLOWED USE
UNDER UNDER THE ANYWAY.
BUT WE WANT THIS JUST FOR
CONSISTENCY WITH THE DOWNTOWN.
WE WANT IT TO BE D ONE THAT'S
THAT'S THE CLARIFICATION THAT
WE WERE SORT OF YOU KNOW,
SITTING HERE THINKING I DON'T
KNOW IF WE COMMUNICATED THAT
PROPERLY SO GOD GOT THANK YOU
BECAUSE I HAD ACTUALLY THOUGHT
I WAS LIKE I'M PRETTY SURE I
SAW FOR LEASE IN THE FRONT AND
THAT AND MR. YEAH.
AND I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THE
USE IS PERMITTED THAT WAS MY
UNDERSTANDING AS WELL THAT
THEY'VE ACTUALLY ALREADY TAKEN
A LOT OF STEPS TO CONVERT SOME
OFFICE TO RESIDENTIAL
SUCCESSFULLY IN THIS.
>> WHAT ARE THE USES BESIDE IT
RIGHT NOW YOU HAVE THE ABILITY
TO DO COMMERCIAL RESTAURANT
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE GROUND
FLOOR RESIDENTIAL ABOVE.
WHAT ARE THE USES THAT ARE IN
THE D1 THAT YOU DESIRE FOR THE
BUILDING THAT YOU'RE NOT USING
NOW?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW IT IS
MULTIFAMILY BUT WE WE JUST
SIMPLY WANT IT TO BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE REST OF THE MAIN
STREET, YOU KNOW, FOR LONG TERM
RESILIENCY AND COMPATIBILITY
WITH THE DOWNTOWN WITH THE MAIN
STREET THAT'S THAT'S ALL WE'RE
SEEKING RIGHT NOW.
BUT THE WE ALREADY HAVE STUDIOS
ONE BEDROOMS, TWO BEDROOMS AND
THEN THE FIRST FLOOR HAS WE'VE
WE'VE GOT THE RESTAURANT WE'VE
GOT A COFFEE SHOP COMING AND
THE OFFICE REMAINS KIND OF GET
IN THE BACK UNFORTUNATELY STILL
TO THIS DAY HOUSE MEMBER I
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THE QUESTION
THAT YOU EXACTLY ASKED WHICH IS
WHY DO YOU WANT THIS?
YOU WANT IT BECAUSE IT'S
CONSISTENT WITH THE REST OF D1
USES.
I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
BETTER WHAT ARE THE USES THAT
YOU DO NOT CURRENTLY HAVE?
>> NOTHING HAS PREVENTED YOU
FROM CONVERTING YOUR BUILDING
AND RENTING IT OR WHATEVER IT
IS THAT YOU'RE DOING WITH
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING.
BUT YOU SEE YOU MUST BE SEEKING
AN ADDITIONAL OR YOU WOULDN'T
BE IN FRONT OF US.
CURRENTLY WE'RE SATISFIED WITH
THE CURRENT USE AS IS BUT AGAIN
I THINK IT'S MORE FOR THE LONG
TERM VIABILITY OF THE BUILDING.
WE WANT IT WE WANT TO HAVE THE
FLEXIBILITY DOWN THE ROAD JUST
LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE HAS ON MAIN
STREET, WHATEVER THAT
FLEXIBILITY MAY BE.
WE WANT THIS THIS IS FOR LONG
TERM VIABILITY, LONG TERM
RESILIENCE.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A
SUCCESSFUL MULTIFAMILY IT IS
NEARLY YOU KNOW, WE'RE IN THE
90S IN TERMS OF RENTAL RATES
AND SO FAR SO GOOD.
WE'RE VERY SATISFIED AS IT IS
AND SPECIFICALLY THE
FLEXIBILITY THAT YOU DON'T HAVE
THAT YOU WANT TO HAVE IS IT WE
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING SPECIFIC.
IT'S D ONE WHATEVER D ONE IS WE
WANT TO HAVE WHAT EVERYBODY
ELSE HAS IN THE DISTRICT.
>> I DON'T I JUST FEEL LIKE I'M
NOT GETTING A DIRECT ANSWER.
YEAH I MEAN HE'S ANSWERING YOU
HE'S HE'S JUST NOT GIVING YOU
THE THE ANSWER THAT WHAT ANSWER
ARE YOU SEEKING.
I GUESS I NEED TO BE THAT MAYBE
YOU'RE JUST NOT SURE WHICH
WE'LL HOLD ON FOR A SECOND.
>> SO DO YOU WANT THE
PETITIONER TO HAVE TOLD OK ALL
RIGHT.
>> SO WE'LL GO TO YOU MANAGER
LENAR AND THEN WE'LL LET YOU
COME BACK AGAIN.
BUT I JUST WANT TO SO I WANT TO
JUST SORT OF REMIND THE
COMMISSION THIS IS A PRE
PETITION SO THIS IS A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY I THINK FOR THIS
DIALOG IN THIS FEEDBACK I THINK
I'M JUMPING OFF OF COMMISSIONER
DISHES COMMENTS AND SO I DON'T
WANT TO ATTRIBUTE THESE TO THE
BULK OF THE COMMISSION BUT WHAT
I'M HEARING FROM COMMISSIONER
DISH AND HAS COME UP IN THE
PAST IS A CONCERN ABOUT SHORT
TERM RENTALS AS THEY IMPACT OUR
HOUSING STOCK AND SUPPLY.
>> AND SO I WOULD IF IT DOESN'T
SOUND LIKE THIS PETITIONER LIKE
A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO AS MR.
MUNZAR INDICATED, THEIR
CONVERSATIONS WITH US WAS VERY
EXPLICIT ABOUT RENTALS AND THEY
HAD ASKED AND THAT WAS ONE
OF THE THAT WAS ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY THEY STARTED THE
CONVERSATION AT THAT TIME.
THIS IS DIFFERENT.
THEY'RE NOT ASKING FOR THAT
SPECIFIC USE.
THEY'RE ASKING FOR A BROADER
USE.
BUT I JUST MOVED BACK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THAT IF IF
YOU ARE CONCERNED ABOUT SHORT
TERM RENTALS OR A HOTEL OR ANY
OTHER USE IN THE D ONE, THIS
WOULD BE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOU TO COMMUNICATE TO THEM
THAT AS THEY FINALIZE THEIR
PETITION WHAT PORTIONS OF THAT
YOU WOULD BE COMFORTABLE WITH
OR NOT COMFORTABLE WITH THAT IS
THE PURPOSE OF THIS TO GIVE
THEM SOME OF THAT FEEDBACK TO
KNOW THAT WHEN THEY ULTIMATELY
SUBMIT THAT PETITION FINALLY IT
GIVES THEM A LITTLE OPPORTUNITY
TO RESPOND TO SOME OF THE
CONCERNS YOU HAVE HERE.
SO IF IF THAT IS A USE CONCERN,
I WOULD I WOULD SUGGEST THAT
THE COMMISSION SORT
OF DELIBERATE ON THAT AND GIVE
THEM THE FEEDBACK THAT THAT
MIGHT BE SOMETHING THEY WANT TO
ADDRESS IN THEIR APPLICATION
HAS A LIMIT OR PROHIBITION.
>> OK, SO CAN WE HAVE MY
QUESTION THAT I ADDRESSED TO
STAFF WHICH IS COULD YOU
COUNSEL ME ON MY SO THE
CONCERNS THERE DO YOU ADVISE DO
NOT ADVISE WOULD BE LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE IF IF THE APPLICATION
WAS AT ALL D1 USES YOUR
MODIFICATION TO THAT MIGHT BE D
ONE USES HOWEVER NO SHORT TERM
RENTALS ARE PERMISSIBLE OR NO
HOTELS ARE PERMISSIBLE FOR A
PERCENTAGE OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS ARE ARE LIMITED.
SO THAT'S THAT'S HOW I WOULD
RECOMMEND WHEN THAT COMES AGAIN
THEY CAN TAKE THIS BACK THEY
MIGHT RESPOND TO THAT WITH THE
APPLICATION ITSELF BUT THAT'S
ONCE ONCE THAT'S BEFORE YOU FOR
ACTION.
THAT'S HOW I WOULD RECOMMEND
YOU THINK ABOUT IT.
OK, I WOULDN'T WANT TO SAY NO.
>> THAT SEEMS PRETTY INFLEXIBLE
BUT I WOULD LOVE YOUR COUNSEL
AS TO WHAT MIGHT BE A
REASONABLE PERCENTAGE JUST TO
AND THEN YOU KNOW, THERE MAY BE
OTHERS ON THIS BODY WHO DO NOT
SHARE MY CONCERN IN WHICH CASE
THIS WON'T HAPPEN.
BUT I THOUGHT WE WOULD GET
ADVICE FROM YOU RATHER THAN ME
PICKING SOMETHING OUT OF THERE
.
OK, THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER MILLS' SORRY I
OPPOSE THIS SORT OF AS A
HYPOTHETICAL AND NOW I'M REALLY
LEGITIMATELY WONDERING WHY THIS
SHOULD WHY WE CAN'T HAVE YOU
HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT THE APPROACH
THAT THE PETITIONER JUST BEFORE
YOU TOOK WHICH IS NOT AMENDING
THE PD BUT PULLING THIS OUT AND
HAVING IT REASON TO DO ONE
ENTIRELY THE BECAUSE THAT'S NOT
WHAT THIS IS ACTUALLY THAT'S
WHAT I GUESS I'M NOT THE CHANGE
THAT I'M SEEING IS SAYING WE
WANT TO WE WANT THINGS THAT
MATCH D ONE.
>> BUT THE PROBLEM IS IN THE
FUTURE IT'S STILL GOING TO BE
ZONED ON THE MAP AS A PD AND
NOW IT'S SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS REFERENCE D ONE AND
IN THE FUTURE THERE MIGHT NOT
BE SOMETHING THAT IS CALLED D
ONE WHICH THEN MAKES IT REALLY
COMPLICATED AND SO THAT IS THE
REASON THAT I DID ORIGINALLY
SPEAK I BELIEVE LIKE WELL
SHOULD WE JUST TAKE BUTTIES AND
MAKE THEM ESPECIALLY ONES THAT
WANT TO BE D IN THIS CASE
SOMETHING THAT ISN'T AN
EXISTING ZONING DISTRICT JUST
MAKE THEM THAT THEN I THINK WE
HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THE OTHER
THINGS THAT ARE REQUIRED OF FOR
THIS PARTICULAR PUDI AND JUST
LIKE WE DID JUST PRIOR TO WHICH
IS FUN THAT THIS IS THE AGENDA
FOR TONIGHT THE CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT LIKE WHAT WERE THE PUBLIC
BENEFITS THAT WERE THERE?
DOES SUCH A CHANGE STILL MAKE
SENSE?
BUT SORRY THAT'S THE LONG LEAD
UP I'M GOING TO ASK AGAIN LIKE
I THINK THAT THERE'S A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AMENDING I
KNOW THAT BOTH OF THEM ARE
AMENDMENTS TO THE PD BUT THIS
IS LIKE ACTUALLY INSTEAD THE
BLOCK ON THE MAP IT DOES NO
LONGER SAYS IT SAYS D ONE ISN'T
LAND USE FUN HA HA.
I WOULD SAY THAT THE WHAT THE
KID WANTS TO DO IS TO GET FROM
HERE TO THERE IN THE SIMPLEST
WAY POSSIBLE AND AT THE
BEGINNING OF THIS WE THOUGHT
THE SIMPLEST WAY WAS JUST AMEND
A MINOR TWEAKED THE TEXT KNOW
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
WOULD BE THE EASIEST THING.
IT IS ENTIRELY POSSIBLE IT JUST
REZONING THE HIGH RISE TO D ONE
WOULD BE SIMPLER.
>> IT ALSO WOULD THEORETICALLY
CHANGE THE TEST THE TEST
ALTHOUGH FROM OUR STANDPOINT
THE PD BENEFITS THAT WERE THERE
ORIGINALLY ARE STILL THERE
UNDER THE TEXT THE PROPOSED
TEXT AMENDMENT.
SO I THINK THAT WE WOULD MEET
THE STANDARD FOR A TEXT
AMENDMENT.
I ALSO THINK GIVEN THE CHANGE
IN THE MARKET AND THE LAND USE
PLANS OF THE CITY IT MIGHT BE
AN EASIER LIFT TO REZONE IT TO
D ONE BUT TO BE HASHED OUT
LISTENING TO EVERYBODY'S
COMMENTS.
I MEAN ONE OF THE THINGS I DO
WANT TO NOTE IS THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS DETERMINED THAT YOU
KNOW D ONE IS AN APPROPRIATE
PLACE FOR SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> THIS SITS RIGHT NEXT TO D
ONE.
IT IS A BUILDING THAT MATCHES
OR EXCEEDS THE DENSITY IN A
LARGE NUMBER OF THE D ONE
STRUCTURES IT WOULD MAKE
EMINENT LAND USE PLANNING SENSE
TO ALLOW ALL THE USES OF D ONE.
THERE'S ABOUT RENT MAYBE 50
USES LISTED IN THE CHART
OF USES IN THE CITY ABOUT WHAT
WOULD BE PERMITTED IN D ONE IN
THE PUDI FOR THE HIGH RISE
THERE'S LIKE FOUR RIGHT OFFICE
MULTIFAMILY.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER IF THERE'S
A COUPLE MORE SO TO GO THROUGH
AND LIST ALL THE USES THAT
WOULD BE PERMITTED UNDER D ONE
VERSUS THE CURRENT SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WE COULD DO IT.
IT'S IT'S A LOT BUT YOU KNOW
AND SOME OF THEM WOULD BE OF NO
INTEREST TO THE CITY OR TO THE
OWNER.
BUT AS STEVE HAS SAID REALLY
THE PURPOSE IS TO TRY TO MAKE
THAT BUILDING CAN THEY USE AND
THE FUNCTIONALITY OF THAT
BUILDING SIMILAR TO THE MAIN
STREET CORRIDOR TO THE NORTH
AND HAD THIS NOT BEEN APPROVED
ORIGINALLY FROM NINETEEN NINETY
NINE, I SUSPECT THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL WOULD HAVE ZONED D1 AND
D2 WOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE LOW
RISE PORTION BECAUSE THAT WOULD
HAVE MADE AGAIN VERY GOOD LAND
USE PLANNING SINCE BUT THAT IS
TO REWRITE TWENTY SIX YEARS
OF HISTORY.
WE DON'T NEED TO DO THAT BUT WE
WILL CERTAINLY THINK ABOUT
WHETHER WE SHOULD JUST WHEN WE
ACTUALLY DO AN APPLICATION JUST
GO FOR D ONE VERSUS WHAT WE
THOUGHT WAS THE SIMPLER
APPROACH OF THE STEP OF THE
TEXT AMENDMENT.
THANK YOU.
LONG ANSWER SORRY.
WE'LL HEAR FIRST FROM LEE AND
THEN FROM COMMISSIONER NORTON
CONFESSIONALLY.
YEAH SURE.
SO PRACTICALLY SPEAKING WHEN
YOU CONVERT OFFICE BUILDINGS
LIKE THIS I'VE LOOKED AT A LOT
OF OFFICE FLOOR PLATES ARE VERY
DEEP AND SO WITH WITH REDZONE
YOU KIND OF WANT A SHALLOW KIND
OF LIKE YOU WANT LOTS OF THAT.
THAT'S WHY REZAEE BUILDINGS
WHEN YOU SEE A TEXAS DONUT
STYLE IT'S LIKE YOU HAVE A
LIGHT WELL IN THE CENTER RIGHT
SO THAT YOU CREATE LIGHT ON
BOTH SIDES.
SO I'M JUST THINKING FROM A
PRACTICAL STANDPOINT OF LIKE
WHAT THIS DEVELOPER HAD TO KIND
OF GO THROUGH TO SAY HEY, I'M
GOING TO CONVERT THIS.
BUT I AND I THINK WE HEARD
EARLIER HEY, IN THE REAR OF THE
SPACE THERE'S KIND OF STILL
OFFICE THAT'S KIND OF DARK.
AND SO I'M THINKING JUST FROM
LIKE THE PRACTICAL UTILIZATION
OF THE SITE BASED ON ITS
CURRENT CHARACTERISTICS.
RIGHT.
AND SO PUTTING NOW THE AND
REALLY I THINK THE LARGER KIND
OF QUESTION IS YEAH.
THINGS LIKE THIS WANTED TO BE A
HOTEL LIKE IS THAT WRONG?
I MEAN I'M LOOKING BACK I'M
THINKING OF THAT FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF OK, WE HAVE
TALKED ABOUT THE CHANGING
CONDITIONS OF HEY LIKE WE NEED
WE NEED TO IMPROVE
AFFORDABILITY.
THIS IS DOWNTOWN.
THE ZONES GENERALLY TEND TO
COMMAND HIGHER RATES BUT TO SEE
AN AFFORDABLE COMPONENT OF IT
I'M JUST THINKING FROM
PRACTICAL UTILIZATION OF THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT WE HAVE TO
KIND OF ASK OURSELVES IS THIS
LIKE BY SAYING HEY, WE DON'T
WANT STARS IN THE REAR OF THE
SPACE OR SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES?
>> I'M JUST TRYING TO I SUPPOSE
ARTICULATE SOME OF THE ACTUAL
DIMENSIONAL CHALLENGES THAT
OFFICE BUILDINGS FACE WHEN IT
COMES TO CONVERTING USE TO FULL
RAZZY AND THEN ALSO ASKING KIND
OF A LARGER QUESTION AS TO THE
THE ROLE OF TOURISM WITHIN
ECONOMIES VERSUS SHEERLY FROM A
I'M JUST THINKING FROM LIKE REV
PAR EIGHTY DOLLARS THOSE ARE
TERMS THAT YOU WOULD USE
AVERAGE DAILY RATES REVENUE PER
AVAILABLE ROOM AS YOU LOOK AT
TOURISM AND ALSO VISITOR AND
THE KINDS OF REVENUE THAT FOLKS
TEND TO SPEND ESPECIALLY WHEN
THEY'RE VISITING DOWNTOWN ZONE.
SO THE QUESTION BEING LIKE IS
US I THINK MORE AND SO I THINK
THAT BY LOOKING AT IT FROM PUDI
AMENDMENT STANDPOINT WE MAY BE
PIGEONHOLED TO SAY LIKE HEY
WE'D ACTUALLY LIKE TO SEE
AFFORDABLE YOU KNOW, BE BE A
PART OF THIS KIND
OF DISCUSSION.
THERE'S A LOT MORE I THINK
DISCRETION WHEN IT COMES TO
AMENDMENT PODS WHEREAS I THINK
THE QUESTION OF CONSISTENCY WE
HEARD ABOUT RESILIENCY.
>> YOU KIND OF HAVE TO ASK
YOURSELF LIKE THE DOWNTOWN CORE
DOES THIS FIT THE OVERALL KIND
OF LIKE PATHWAY OF LAND USE
PATTERNS THAT WE HAVE TALKED
ABOUT AND SO YEAH BUT I JUST
ALSO MOSTLY I WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT THE CHALLENGES
OF CREATING FULL UTILIZATION
WHEN THERE IS OFFICE BUILDINGS
THAT HAVE LIKE A HUGE DEPTH TO
IT AND SO THAT IS JUST ONE
OF THE CHALLENGES AGAIN
GEOMETRICALLY FOLKS WILL FACE
SO ALL THAT TO SAY I THINK
YOU'LL FIND THAT WITH THIS BODY
AFFORDABILITY IS REALLY KIND
OF AT THE CORE OF WHAT WE ARE
LOOKING FOR AND TO REALLY
PROMOTE OBVIOUSLY STARS DETRACT
FROM THAT AND I THINK RIGHT I
MEAN LITERALLY IT'S LIKE IT
COULD BE A FAMILY THAT LIVES
THERE FOR A YEAR OR IT COULD BE
A TRANSIENT.
RIGHT.
BUT I THINK THE QUESTION THAT
YOU MAY WANT TO ASK IS WHAT IS
THE APPROPRIATE LAND USE
FUNCTION OF THIS PARTICULAR
PARCEL AS IT TRANSITIONS?
WELL, NO PUN INTENDED.
I KNOW WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT TRANSITIONS A LITTLE
LATER ON, BUT I JUST WANTED TO
ARTICULATE SOME OF THE
CHALLENGES GEOMETRICALLY WITH
ACTIVATING DEEP CORRIDORS AND
OFFICE BUILDINGS.
>> NATURAL LIGHT THANKS.
THANK COMMISSIONER LEE
COMMISSIONER NORTON, COULD I
YES.
THE PETITIONER I'M TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT WERE THE
SPECIAL BENEFITS OF THE PUDI
JUSTIFIED?
WHAT WERE THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
THAT JUSTIFIED HAVING A VIP
PARTY WAY BACK WHEN?
HOW WOULD YOU CHARACTERIZE THE
CORE BENEFITS THAT IT PROVIDED?
>> RIGHT.
IT WAS THERE WERE A VARIETY
OF THEM BUT PART OF IT WAS THE
DIFFICULTY OF CONSTRUCTING A
SITE UNDER AN EXISTING ZONING.
SO THE PD I WOULD SAY THE CITY
COUNCIL WAS AWARE OF THE
DIFFICULTY OF PUTTING THAT
WHOLE PACKAGE TOGETHER BUT THE
BENEFITS WERE, YOU KNOW,
DOWNTOWN DIVERSITY CONTRIBUTION
TO THE YOU KNOW, THE BENEFIT
THE ACTIVITY OF DOWNTOWN
PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITY ON MAIN
STREET THERE WAS THE
AFFORDABILITY ISSUE YOU TALKED
ABOUT THE EIGHT UNITS THAT WAS
A HUGE FACTOR BACK IN 1999.
IT WAS VERY DIFFICULT TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO DO.
I'M ONLY SAYING THAT BECAUSE I
WAS THE ONE THAT GOT IT
APPROVED AND SO THE
AFFORDABILITY PART WAS A MAJOR
PART OF THE APPROVAL PROCESS
AND THE AND THE MIXED USE THERE
WAS PART OF IT.
IT WAS ALL I MEAN IT'S RIGHT IN
THE REPORT THAT YOU GUYS THE
SUMMARY OF THE BENEFITS THAT
THE CITY SO BECAUSE YOU JUST
SAID THAT CHANGING THIS
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION
WOULDN'T DIMINISH THE PUBLIC
BENEFITS THAT JUSTIFY ALLOWING
THE PD IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE IT WOULD.
I MEAN I BELIEVE THE SAME
BENEFITS ARE STILL THERE.
EVERYTHING I MEAN IN FACT AS
COMMISSIONER LEE MENTIONED, YOU
KNOW, THERE WAS A CONCERN THEN
AND EVEN NOW ABOUT PEOPLE
SPENDING MONEY DOWNTOWN AND
TRYING TO IMPROVE THE VITALITY
OF THE DOWNTOWN RETAIL AND
ENTERTAINMENT VALUE.
>> SO THE CONVERSION TO
MULTIFAMILY WHICH HAS ALREADY
HAPPENED ARGUABLY HAS PRODUCED
MORE OF THOSE BENEFITS.
I MEAN THERE WAS BACK THEN
THERE WAS A DISCUSSION ABOUT
OK, HOW DO THE WORKERS AT
LUNCHTIME AND SPEND THEIR MONEY
BECAUSE AT THE END OF THE DAY
THEY LEAVE WELL NOW YOU'VE GOT
A BETTER I WOULD ARGUE
POPULATION IN THAT BUILDING
THAT OUR SPENDING I SUSPECT
MORE MONEY ON A DAILY BASIS IN
THE DOWNTOWN CORE.
>> SO I THINK I DON'T HAVE A
STRONG SENSE OF I'M NOT HEADING
TOWARD SOME KIND OF AN AGENDA.
BUT I DO THINK IT IS CORRECT
THAT BUT FOR THE PUDI THIS
PROPERTY WOULD ALMOST CERTAINLY
BE D ONE D TWO.
IT'S KIND OF RIGHT AT THE EDGE
OF BETWEEN A DO ONE OR TWO SO
REWORKING THIS IN A WAY THAT
MAKES IT CONSISTENT WITH THIS
ONE WOULD
MAKE IT ENTIRELY
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN THERE.
BUT FOR THE PD PODS ARE
DIFFERENT FROM PYRITE ZONING
BECAUSE YOU HAD THE WHOLE IDEA
IS YOU'RE A DEVELOPER IS
PROPOSING SOMETHING UNIQUE AND
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT WOULD BE
ALLOWED UNDER A CLUNKY ZONING
CODE CODE PROVISION.
BUT IT'S ALLOWABLE BECAUSE IT'S
PROVIDING SOME PUBLIC BENEFIT
THAT YOU WOULDN'T GET
OTHERWISE.
I THINK THAT'S APPROPRIATE.
I GET REALLY NERVOUS WHEN WE
WHEN THE CITY START SEEING THAT
AS A WAY TO LEVERAGE THINGS OUT
OF A DEVELOPER KIND THAN A
COERCIVE WAY WHICH WOULD MAKE
ME NERVOUS ABOUT SAYING WELL
WELL WE'LL LET YOU AMEND YOUR
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS IF WE
GET SOMETHING OUT OF IT.
I THINK THAT'S KIND OF HEADING
DOWN THAT ROAD SITE.
THAT'S WHY I'M ASKING WOULD
MAKING THIS CHANGE DIMINISH THE
BENEFITS THAT WERE IN PLACE IN
THE FIRST PLACE WHEN THE PD WAS
ALLOWED IN?
IF NOT, THEN THERE'S STILL
BENEFITS TO THE PD BEING THERE
JUST IN SOME RECONFIGURED
STATE.
I'M KIND OF THINKING OFF THE
CUFF A LITTLE BIT HERE.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO BE CLEAR TO
THE PETITIONER AND I READ SOME
OF THE COMMENTS I LOOKED
THROUGH THE MATERIALS FOR THIS
IN THE COMMENTS FROM SOME
OF THE FOLKS WHO SHOWED UP.
>> I THINK THAT YOUR PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION MEETING WHO WERE
PRETTY SKEPTICAL YOU REALLY
HAVE SOME KIND OF ULTERIOR
MOTIVE GOING ON HERE AND THAT'S
NOT JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE TRYING
MAKE IT CONSISTENT WITH THE
LARGER NEIGHBORHOOD AND I'M I'M
JUST TELLING YOU WHAT I READ.
WHAT I'M HEARING IS WHAT YOU
WANT TO HAVE IS THE OPTION TO
BE ABLE TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT WITH IN THE FUTURE IN
A TIMELY WAY WITHOUT HAVING TO
COME BACK AND REQUEST A
REZONING.
SO YOU'RE KIND OF THINKING
AHEAD AND TRYING TO GET THERE,
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I'M SORRY.
HOLD ON FOR A SECOND,
COMMISSIONER.
I MEAN NORTON, ARE YOU
SPECIFICALLY ASKING TO DO
THE
BOARD HERE, THE COMMISSIONER
HERE THAT WE HAVE LONG TERM
RENTALS IN THE APARTMENTS RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE IN THE 90 PLUS
PERCENT RENTED SO WE DON'T HAVE
ANY PLANS WHATSOEVER NOW OR IN
THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE TO DO ANY
CHANGE.
WE HAVE NO REASON TO MAKE ANY
CHANGE TO WHAT WHAT'S BEING
DESCRIBED HERE TODAY.
SO BUT IT'S MORE ABOUT LONG
TERM VIABILITY, LONG TERM
FLEXIBILITY, LONG TERM
SUSTAINABILITY OF THIS PROPERTY
.
AND WE WERE VERY, VERY
SENSITIVE TO THAT.
YEAH.
SO I GUESS IN THE SPIRIT
OF GIVING FEEDBACK ON THIS
PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE WHERE
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO BE GETTING
FEEDBACK AND AND SEEING THAT
PEOPLE'S CONCERN THAT YOU'RE
TRYING TO BE SNEAKY HERE AND
YOU'RE NOT REALLY TELLING WHEN
WE HAVE LONG TERM LEASES HOW
COULD YOU KNOW WE DON'T HAVE
ANY OTHER MOTIVES HERE.
WE ARE A MANAGEMENT COMPANY
THAT'S WHERE WE HAVE LONG TERM
LEASES AND WE'RE TAKING LEASE
THAT WE'RE SIGNING LEASES FOR
TWO THOUSAND TWENTY SIX AND
BEYOND AND TWENTY SEVEN POINT
ON COMMENT I THINK SAYING
YOU'RE DOING THIS JUST TO MAKE
IT CONSISTENT WITH THE REST
OF THE DESIGN DOESN'T RINGS A
LITTLE BIT HOLLOW TO SAY THAT
YOU'RE DOING THIS BECAUSE YOU
WANT TO HAVE THE OPTION TO DO
THINGS IN THE FUTURE LIKE
EVERYBODY ELSE IN ONE DISTRICT
DOES THAT OK?
AT LEAST TO MY MIND THAT MAKES
MORE SENSE.
WELL THAT'S THAT'S SORT OF SO
THAT'S JUST FEEDBACK FOR YOU.
BUT AGAIN, I THINK I'M JUST
NOODLING THROUGH THIS THE THE
WAY TO THINK ABOUT IT IS THIS
IS A CHANGE TO A SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS ON A PAD THAT'S
REZONING.
IT'S MORE AKIN TO A TEXT
AMENDMENT AND YOU WOULD APPROVE
IT IF IT MAKES SENSE GIVEN THE
CONDITIONS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE THINGS THAT HAVE
CHANGED.
AND FOR PUDI IT WOULD MAKE
SENSE ESPECIALLY IF IT DOESN'T
DIMINISH THE SPECIAL PUBLIC
BENEFITS THAT JUSTIFY DOING THE
DEED IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> SO THOSE ARE THE THINGS I'M
THINKING THROUGH NOW.
>> WE ALSO ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
I MEAN THIS WILL OPEN THE DOOR
TO ALLOWING ANYTHING THAT COULD
BE IN ONE DISTRICT WHICH IS A
LOT THERE'S A LOT OF STUFF THAT
COULD HAPPEN BUT THAT'S NOT ANY
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT COULD GO ON
ACROSS THE STREET NEXT DOOR.
SO I'M JUST KIND OF PUTTING
THIS ON THE TABLE AS WE THINK
IT THROUGH.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN
REDDISH.
>> YEAH, AND THAT'S WHY I READ
THE LIST OF BENEFITS THAT I
DON'T THINK I THINK THIS WAS
MEANING TO BE CURRENT A CURRENT
LIST ENCOURAGE MORE DENSE LAND
USE THAT WILL FOSTER AN ACTIVE
STREET LIFE, ENCOURAGE
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES AND STRENGTHEN
DOWNTOWN'S ROLE AS AN URBAN
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THOSE WERE LISTED IN THEIR MEMO
AND IN MY VIEW THE CONVERSION
TO RESIDENTIAL IN NO WAY HARMS
THOSE.
>> I THINK IT ADVANCES THEM BUT
IF IN FUTURE LET'S SAY MORE
THAN 20 PERCENT THIS BUILDING
WERE CONVERTED TO SDR, I'D HAVE
A PROBLEM WITH THAT BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK THAT'S CONSISTENT
WITH THOSE BENEFITS.
>> BUT I UNDERSTAND THAT I MAY
BE A MINORITY VIEW ON THE BOARD
BUT I DO WANT TO STATE THAT
BECAUSE IT IS I AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER LEIGH THAT STARS
ARE NOT STARS WANT BUILDINGS
THAT ARE LARGELY ASTAR.
WE ARE HEARING FEEDBACK FROM
RESIDENTS THAT I TAKE SERIOUSLY
THAT THE BUILDINGS CAN BE EMPTY
A LOT OF THE TIME IT DOES NOT
CONTRIBUTE TO A FEELING
OF NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT CONTRIBUTES TO SOMETHING
ELSE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS EXACTLY
AND BUT FOR ME IT IS A MATTER
OF PROPORTION.
IT'S NOT MORAL, YOU KNOW NONE
OF THIS, NONE OF THAT AND SO I
WOULD WANT TO BECAUSE TO ME
THOSE THINGS THAT THEY LIST IN
THEIR MEMO ARE NOT DIMINISHED
BY THE CONVERSION TO
RESIDENTIAL BUT WOULD BE IF IN
THE FUTURE SOMETHING OVER X
PERCENT AND I'M THINKING 20
JUST TO BE RANDOM WERE
CONVERTED TO STAR.
SO AND I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
YOU KNOW THAT THAT MAY NOT BE A
SHARED VIEW BUT I I THINK THAT
I AM REASONING EXACTLY AS YOU
WANT ME TO REASON AND I'M
COMING TO THE CONCLUSION NOT
THAT I'M TRYING TO LEVERAGE
SOMETHING BUT THAT I DO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY IN THE WAY THAT
THIS DECISION IS PLAYING OUT
BECAUSE WE'RE BEING ASKED FOR
TO MAKE A CHANGE.
I HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO TO ASK
TO TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
WE'RE VOTING ON ANYTHING TO THE
RIGHT.
>> WE ARE NOT WE ARE NOT.
THIS IS JUST A DISCUSSION.
>> ARE YOU DONE COUNCIL MEMBER
ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE AND
THEN COMMISSIONER LEE.
>> SO I'M I'M NOT SURE IF THIS
WILL HELP OR HURT OR BUT I
REMEMBER WHEN THIS WAS BUILT
AND I REMEMBER THE UPROAR WHEN
IT WAS BUILT AND IT WAS GOING
TO RUIN EVERYTHING BUT IT WAS
IT DID REPLACE THE DOWNTOWN
HALL ON THE GROUND THAT
ACTUALLY HAD A SONG THE
DOWNTOWN HALL ON THE GROUND
BECAUSE IT WAS JUST A GIANT
HOLE IN THE GROUND FOR A REALLY
LONG TIME AND THIS FINALLY CAME
THROUGH AND THE AFFORDABILITY
AND THERE WAS A LOT OF ISSUES
ABOUT THE AFFORDABILITY AND IF
THAT WAS GOOD OR BAD AND AS I
RECALL A WALKWAY THROUGH WAS
CONSIDERED A PUBLIC BENEFIT
WHICH IS WHY I ALWAYS WALK
THROUGH THERE BECAUSE I FIGURE
IT'S MINE AND I CAN WALK
THROUGH IT IF I WANT BECAUSE
IT'S PUBLIC.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, THIS WAS JUST
THIS WAS AN OFFICE BUILDING.
IT WAS FULL WHEN THERE WERE
POWER OUTAGES AND ALL THE
TRUCKS CAME IN AND ALL THE
PEOPLE CAME IN AND I I THINK I
LOOK AT IT AS, YOU KNOW, WHAT'S
OUR WORST CASE SCENARIO IS THAT
IT'S SHORT TERM RENTALS OR A
HOTEL OR AND THIS SEEMS LIKE A
PRETTY APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR
THOSE THINGS.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT WE CAN I
PERSONALLY I'M NOT SWAYED BY
WHATEVER THE PETITIONER SAYS
BECAUSE THAT'S NOT IT COULD BE
A DIFFERENT PETITIONER IN TWO
MONTHS.
IT COULD BE.
AND SO I YOU KNOW, I REALLY
HAVE TO GO BY KIND OF WHATEVER
WHEREVER WHATEVER THE IS
WHETHER WE REZONE IT TO DO ONE
OR WHETHER IT'S AN AMENDMENT TO
THE PUDI OR HOWEVER WE DECIDE
TO DO IT.
YOU KNOW, WE CAN'T TAKE A
PETITIONER'S ASSURANCES AND
THAT'S JUST NOT REALLY UNLESS
IT'S WRITTEN DOWN IS NOT A
THING.
NO OFFENSE BUT BUT TO ME I
DON'T THE SORT OF WHAT IF THIS
WERE A HOTEL OR A SHORT TERM
RENTAL BUILDING I'VE STAYED IN
ONE IN CHICAGO THAT'S JUST AN
OLD BUILDING.
I TOOK AN OLD BUILDING AND IT'S
ALL SHORT TERM RENTALS AND YOU
KNOW THOSE THINGS EXIST NOW
THEY MIGHT NOT EXIST IN THE
FUTURE.
THERE MIGHT BE A LOT OF THEM IN
THE FUTURE WE DON'T REALLY
KNOW.
BUT IT DEFINITELY I THINK THIS
IS A REASONABLE USE OF SORT
OF IT'S IT'S REALLY RIGHT
DOWNTOWN AND ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS IS THAT IT'S NOT QUITE
WE HAVEN'T GIVEN IT DOWNTOWN
ABILITY TO EXIST AND WHY THAT'S
ALWAYS KIND OF A LITTLE IT'S A
LITTLE WEIRD AND IT'S A LITTLE
BECAUSE IT'S ACROSS THE STREET
AND THERE'S A GAS STATION THAT
IN HIBBITTS SORT OF THE
DOWNTOWN FEEL AND THEN LIKE WE
MADE THE MOUNTAINS AND THE
WINDOWS HAVE TO BE THERE.
SO THEN PEOPLE CAN'T SEE IN AND
THEY CAN'T SO THE RETAIL ISN'T
GREAT.
SO I THINK THINGS HAVE CHANGED
AND THIS IS A BUILDING AND A
DEVELOPMENT THAT HELPED CHANGE
THOSE THINGS BUT NOW IT'S KIND
OF BEHIND THE TIMES OF THOSE
CHANGES.
>> AND SO I'M I THINK THIS IS
REASONABLE WHATEVER HOWEVER WE
GET THERE I DON'T HAVE
PARTICULAR FEELINGS ABOUT
WHETHER IT'S I MEAN I THINK
THIS SHOWS WHY PODS CAN BE KIND
OF ANNOYING BECAUSE LIKE THEY
DON'T CHANGE WITH THE TIMES AND
THEN YOU'RE STUCK LOOKING AT
SOMETHING THAT'S 25 YEARS OLD
AND
WE'RE JUST HAVING TO KIND
OF SAY I DON'T KNOW, I GUESS
IT'S OK IF YOU BUT YOU KNOW
TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO IT COULD
HAVE BEEN A HOTEL AND IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN A FUNCTIONING HOTEL
ALL THESE YEARS AND WE WOULDN'T
HAVE CARED BECAUSE IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN HOTEL RIGHT DOWNTOWN
AND SO I THINK AGAIN I'M NOT
SURE IF THAT'S I'M NOT SURE I'M
CONTRIBUTING TO THIS BUT I'M
JUST SAYING LIKE I JUST I THINK
IT'S A REASONABLE IT'S
REASONABLE WHATEVER ANY
OF THESE USES ANY ONE USES I
THINK WOULD BE REASONABLE HERE.
>> AND HOWEVER WE GET THERE, I
DON'T THINK IT'S AN
UNREASONABLE THING TO ASK
COMMISSIONER COLE.
>> I'LL MAKE IT QUICK JUST FOR
WHEN YOU UNDERWRITE A HOTEL
JUST BY WAY OF STARS OR
WHATNOT, YOU GENERALLY TRY TO
ASSUME 60 TO 70 PERCENT
OCCUPANCY.
YOU HOPE TO GET 70 SOMETIMES
YOU'LL RANGE FROM 50 TO 70.
>> THERE'S SEASONALITY AS WELL.
SO I THINK YOUR CONCERNS ABOUT
ITS IMPACTS TO SENSE
OF COMMUNITY WITHIN THE ACTUAL
YOU KNOW, THE TRANSIENT NATURE
OF THINGS IS WELL PLACED ON MY
SO I THINK THAT THERE'S A REAL
CONCERN TO BE HAD THE I THINK
THE OVERARCHING QUESTION FOR ME
ESPECIALLY WITH THE CONTEXT
OF THIS IS IS THERE A
DEPRIVATION OF THE PUBLIC GOOD
THAT WAS ENVISIONED AT THE POD
LEVEL?
AND I'M JUST GOING TO REPEAT
KIND OF WHAT YOU HAD INDICATED
WHICH WAS BEST INTERESTS OF THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE DOWNTOWN AREAS PRESERVE AND
ENHANCED BY PROVIDING HIGH
DENSITY MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT
ON THE SITE, HIGH QUALITY
OF ARCHITECTURE AND SITE DESIGN
WHICH I DON'T THINK WE LOSE
STRONG PEDESTRIAN ORIENTATION.
I THINK WE STILL HAVE THAT
ENCLOSED AND LOW GRADE PARKING.
OKAY.
AND A VARIETY OF RESIDENTIAL
UNITS ON THE LOTS DESCRIBED
ABOVE AND WITH A BENEFICIAL
EFFECT ON AND WILL NOT
ADVERSELY AFFECT THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES OR THE
CITY IN TERMS OF PUBLIC HEALTH,
SAFETY OR WELFARE.
AND SO I REALLY THINK AH AND I
SUPPOSE MAYBE IF THE QUESTION
IS POSES ARE DOES STARS HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON THE
HEALTH, SAFETY, GENERAL WELFARE
I THINK REASONABLE PEOPLE COULD
PROBABLY DISAGREE ON THE
COMMUNITY ACTIVATION OF LIKE AN
APARTMENT BUILDING VERSUS ONE
WITH A CERTAIN RATIO BUT TO ME
I THINK IT'S MORE IMPORTANT
THAT WE FOCUS ON IS THERE A
DETRACTION OR DEPRIVATION
OF THE PUBLIC GOOD SORT AND
GRETA AND THE PD AND I'M NOT ON
THAT PARTICULAR CONVINCED THAT
THERE IS BY CHANGING THE D ONE.
SO TO THAT EFFECT AGAIN THOSE
ARE JUST I SUPPOSE I DON'T
NECESSARILY SEE A HUGE ISSUE
WITH THIS ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER, IF
YOU'RE TRYING NOT TO BEAT A
DEAD HORSE, PLEASE DON'T BEAT
ANY HORSE.
TRY NOT TO BEAT ANY HORSE IS
DEAD .
I THINK IT'S USUALLY THE CASE
WHEN SOMEONE REQUESTS A
REZONING THEY HAVE A PARTICULAR
USE IN MIND.
I WANT THIS REZONING SO I CAN
BUILD A HOTEL.
THIS IS A LITTLE DIFFERENT
BECAUSE THERE'S SOMETHING THERE
AND IT'S WORKING AND YOU'RE
REQUESTING EFFECTIVELY KIND
OF A REZONING AND EVERYBODY'S
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT DO
YOU WHAT'S THE SECRET BEHIND
THE DOOR THING YOU'RE REALLY
TRYING TO GET OUT.
THAT'S WHAT I GOT OUT OF THE
STUFF I READ.
SO I'M JUST TRYING TO RESPOND
TO THAT AND MY COUNSEL TO YOU
WAS JUST TO KIND OF THINK ABOUT
THAT AS YOU THINK THROUGH AND
GO FORWARD YOU THROUGH PROPOSAL
ABOUT WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO DO.
IT MAKES SENSE TO ME THAT
YOU'RE JUST LOOKING AHEAD AND
WANT TO HAVE THE FREEDOM AND
FLEXIBILITY DO WHAT EVERYBODY
ELSE IN THE DOWNTIME CAN DO.
I THINK THAT'S OK.
I'M JUST SUGGESTING THAT MIGHT
BE THE STATEMENT.
>> HAVE YOU ASKED A QUESTION?
NO, I WAS JUST THREATENED THAT
THAT WAS JUST FRIEND.
I COULD CLARIFY SOMETHING FOR
YOU THOUGH BUT HE HASN'T ASKED
A QUESTION.
HE THINKS I COULD ASK YOU.
CAN YOU CLARIFY QUICKLY JUST
REALLY QUICKLY WHAT WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING THERE WAS THERE WAS A
CASE FOR THERE WAS A THERE WAS
A COMPANY THAT APPROACHED US
FOUR YEARS AGO WHEN WE FIRST
BOUGHT THIS THING TO DO SHORT
TERM RENTALS.
THAT'S WHY THAT SUBJECT CAME UP
THAT RIGHT NOW WE'RE DOING JUST
FINE AS MULTIFAMILY.
WE'RE DOING GREAT ACTUALLY AND
WE'RE VERY PLEASED WITH WHAT IT
IS.
BUT WE WANT TO KEEP THE OPTIONS
OPEN SHOULD SOMETHING ARISE AS
DEVELOPERS WE JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE ALL OPTIONS
AVAILABLE TO US FOR THE LONG
TERM VIABILITY OF THIS PROJECT.
THAT'S IT.
NOTHING ELSE.
THERE'S NO THERE'S NO AGENDA.
LIKE I SAID, WE HAVE LEASES
INTO TWENTY SIX AND TWENTY
SEVEN RIGHT NOW SO WE'D BE
FOOLISH TO STOP WHAT WE'RE
DOING RIGHT NOW AT THIS POINT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER FEEDBACK FROM
COMMISSIONERS' PLAN MARIE
MERLENE COCHRAN DO YOU HAVE ANY
FEEDBACK OR CLARIFICATION FOR
US OR THE PETITIONER AT THIS
TIME?
>> NOT JUST THAT IF YOU GOT ALL
OF YOUR RECOMMENDATIONS AND YOU
FEEL GOOD THEN THAT'S ALL WE
NEED.
>> GREAT.
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE IF I WERE TO
DO A QUICK SUMMARY I'M NOT
GOING TO TAKE UP FORMER CHAIR
LEE'S SUMMARIZING ABILITIES
WHICH WERE SO GREAT TO SAY.
YOU MAY WANT TO COME BACK JUST
A CLEAN D ONE.
IT SEEMS LIKE THAT MIGHT MAKE A
LOT OF THIS EASIER AND WE LOOK
FORWARD TO YOUR PETITION SHOULD
IT ARRIVE.
>> YEAH.
HAVE A GREAT EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT BRINGS US TO ELEVEN B
OTHER BUSINESS AND I BELIEVE WE
ARE GOING TO BE JOINED BY
PRINCIPAL PLANNER MICHELLE
BENNET.
I KNOW IT CHANGES A LOT.
I HEAR IT CHANGE.
I GET CITY COUNCIL IN OTHER
PLACES SO I'M TRYING TO KEEP UP
WITH THE TIMES
AND AS YOU GET
SETTLED IN READY TO GIVE YOUR
PRESENTATION, MR. MONROE, CAN
YOU COME UP?
>> I WANT IT TO I'M GOING TO
USE THE THE PRIVILEGE OF THE
CHAIR TO UNDERSTAND SOMETHING
THAT YOU SAID THAT I DID NOT
QUITE GET.
>> SO WHEN YOU WERE TALKING
THANK YOU FOR COMING UP.
THAT'S RIGHT.
YEAH.
WHEN YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
TWO HUNDRED 50 FOOT BUFFER FROM
OUR NATURAL FEATURES INVENTORY
LET'S ASSUME NO ONE KNOWS WHICH
ARE SPEAKING OF EVEN THOUGH
IT'S IN THE RECORD AND IT IS
ACCESSIBLE JUST GIVE ME A
SENTENCE OR TWO OF WHAT YOU
HAVE IN MIND AS YOU ARE MAKING
THIS RECOMMENDATION TO US.
>> YES.
SO WHAT I HAVE IN MIND IS WHAT
I TOLD BRET ON SATURDAY IS KIND
OF MY GATEWAY DRUG TO THE WHOLE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
RIGHT.
AND IT IS THIS WAY THAT'S AN
ENTRANCE.
YEAH.
IT'S A PLACE THAT'S BEEN NEAR
AND DEAR TO MY HEART AND I CAN
HONESTLY SAY FOR MY ENTIRE LIFE
I GREW UP BY AAGOT EVEN WHEN I
DIDN'T LIVE IN ANN ARBOR WHEN I
CAME BACK TO ANN ARBOR THAT IS
THE PLACE WHERE I WENT RIGHT.
AND IF YOU ALL ARE FAMILIAR
LONG TO OUR DRIVE RIGHT.
IT'S THIS LOVELY DIRT ROAD THAT
KIND OF CURVES AWAY FROM THE
CITY PARK.
RIGHT.
AND HISTORICALLY THERE HAS BEEN
A STEEP.
RIGHT AND WOODLAND WHICH ARE IN
THE NATURAL FEATURES INVENTORY
WHICH ARE PICTURED RIGHT THERE
IN THE PICTURE THAT IS ACTUALLY
OUTDATED AND PROBABLY SHOULD BE
UPDATED TO REFLECT THE
DEVASTATION OF THE WOODLANDS ON
THAT STEEP RIGHT.
AND SO WHAT WOULD I HAVE IN
MIND IS THAT MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT DEVELOPMENT OCCURRED
WITHOUT A SITE REVIEW.
THAT'S MY UNDERSTANDING AND SO
IF WE'RE SAYING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO PROTECT OUR NATURAL
FEATURES AND YET THERE'S THIS
LOOPHOLE THAT ALLOWS OUR
NATURAL FEATURES TO BE
DESTRUCTED WITHOUT SITE REVIEW
AND THE UDC SAYS THE WAY THAT
WE PROTECT OUR NATURAL FEATURES
ARE THROUGH SITE REVIEW.
>> I THINK THAT'S A HOLE SO THE
TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET I ALSO
WANT TO ADD AS YOU'VE WATCHED
I'VE WATCHED THIS CONSTRUCTION
THEY HAVE NOT JUST IMPACTED
THAT SIDE OF THE ROAD.
THEY'VE ALSO IMPACTED THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE ROAD WHICH IS ALSO
IN OUR NATURAL FEATURES
INVENTORY.
AND SO YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHERE I
GOT THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FOOT
BUFFER.
GRANTED THAT ROAD IS NOT AS
WIDE AS TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET
BUT I SURE THINK IT'S A
REASONABLE PLACE TO START THE
CONVERSATION.
OK I THINK I I UNDERSTAND
BETTER NOW.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I'M GOING TO DIRECT MY QUESTION
TO STAFF YOU'RE GOOD FOR FROM
MY POINT SO YOU SEE NOW THANK
YOU.
>> SO MR. THIS DEVELOPMENT IN
PARTICULAR WAS ON PRIVATE LAND
AND ON PRIVATE LAND THAT
DOESN'T REQUIRE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW OR PRIVATE LAND IS NOT
THE DISTINCTION GREAT.
THIS THIS IS WHY I WAS STARTING
THIS THIS WAY BECAUSE I KNEW
YOU WOULD JUMP RIGHT IN AND
GIVE ME THE DISTINCTION THAT I
NEED IT SO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SETS
THRESHOLDS OF WHAT SCALE
OF PROJECT REQUIRES WHAT LEVEL
OF REVIEW AND MR. MONROE IS
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
I WAS PROJECTS OF THAT SCALE
DON'T REQUIRE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW.
THEY CAN BE THEY'RE STILL
REVIEWED TO MAKE SURE THEY MEET
SETBACKS AND THE LIKE.
BUT A DISTINCTION THAT I THINK
HE IS RAISING IS THAT WHEN WE
PROCESS A BUILDING PERMIT FOR
EITHER A NEW HOME OR A NEW
COMPLEX MULTIPLE SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES WHAT HAVE YOU THAT FALL
UNDER THAT CATEGORY, WE DO NOT
REQUIRE PREMEDICATION.
WE DON'T REQUIRE ALL OF THE
NATURAL RESOURCES THOSE
REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW ARE
DONE FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
AND SO WHAT WHAT HAPPENS IS AS
IN THE PAST WE'VE SET THAT
THRESHOLD PARTIALLY TO FRANKLY
CONTROL THE COST AND IMPACT
OF DIFFERENT SCALES
OF DEVELOPMENT.
>> AND SO BECAUSE A SITE PLAN
IS MORE THAN JUST THE NATURAL
FEATURES REMEDIATION BECAUSE
YOU HAVE TO INVITE ALMOST ALL
OF THE CITY'S DEPARTMENT
SO
YOU'VE GOT TO BRING IN
ENGINEERING, SANITATION,
TRAFFIC SO THE COST TO A
DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE
SIGNIFICANT AND ASSUMING THAT
WAS A A AMANO STRUCTURE, UM
THAT COULD BE COST PROHIBITIVE
FOR THEM TO BUILD ON A PARCEL
OF LAND WHERE THEY BUY.
>> RIGHT.
COULD I THINK MR. MONROES POINT
THAT HE MADE THIS WEEKEND AND
NOW IS THAT CITY HAS THE
ABILITY TO SET WHAT THAT
THRESHOLD IS THERE.
>> SO YEAH, ALL RIGHT.
>> I THAT WAS HELPFUL AND I
APPRECIATE THE INDULGENCE
OF THE TABLE NOT THAT YOU COULD
STOP ME BUT I WAS USING THE
PRIVILEGE OF THE CHAIR TO GET
THAT CLARITY.
PLANNER BENNETT.
YES.
ARE YOU READY FOR YOUR STAFF
PRESENTATION?
>> I'M READY.
EXCELLENT.
WELL, I WILL TURN IT OVER TO
YOU NOW.
GREAT IN YOUR PACKET UNDER THE
THIS ITEM YOU SHOULD HAVE FOUR
ATTACHMENTS I'M GOING TO
PROPOSE HOW I THINK WE SHOULD
GO THROUGH THEM FOR THIS
EVENING WITH ANY MODIFICATION
THAT YOU ALL WANT TO OFFER.
BUT I WOULD SUGGEST THAT WE
START WITH THE DOCUMENT THAT
HAS THE EDITS THAT WE DISCUSSED
FROM LAST MEETING.
I WANT TO SHOW YOU ALL THE
NOTES THAT WE TOOK.
THERE WERE A FEW INSTANCES IN
WHICH YOU ASKED STAFF TO COME
UP WITH THE WORDING FOR SOME
THINGS.
SO I'M GOING TO DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO THOSE EXAMPLES
FIRST.
BUT ANYTHING THAT'S ON HERE IS
OPEN FOR US TO TALK ABOUT.
BUT THIS THESE ARE EDITS THAT
YOU SUBMITTED FOR THE NOVEMBER
18TH MEETING.
WE DISCUSSED AND TOOK NOTES AND
HERE ARE HERE THEY ARE FOR YOU
TO CORRECT THE RECORD IF YOU
THINK THAT WE MISSED ANYTHING.
>> SO I'D LIKE TO START THERE.
AND THEN SECONDLY YOU HAVE THE
COMMENTS THAT ARE BEING
SUBMITTED THROUGH THE ENGAGE
PAGE ON THE PROJECT PAGE YOU
HAVE ALL FIVE HUNDRED AND
SOMETHING OF THOSE.
SO AFTER WE GO THROUGH ARTISTS
I WOULD OPEN THAT UP FOR YOU IF
YOU WANT TO BRING ANY OF THOSE
FOR DISCUSSION THAT WE CAN I
CAN TAKE NOTES ON HERE AND ADD
TO OUR RUNNING LIST OF EDITS
FOR NEXT TIME AND THEN AS A
PART OF THAT I ALSO INCLUDED AN
UPDATED FUTURE LAND USE MAP NOT
UPDATED IN THAT WE CHANGED
ANYTHING BUT UPDATED IN THAT
THERE WERE REQUEST TO HAVE A
HIGHER QUALITY MAP.
SO THOSE ARE IN THERE THAT'S IN
THERE AND WE CAN OPEN THAT UP
AND SEE IF THAT'S TO YOUR
LIKING.
>> AND THEN LASTLY WAS THE MEMO
THAT CHAIRMAN WHITEHEAD BROUGHT
UP WHERE I WALK THROUGH THE
PROCESS OF UM FUTURE LAND USE
MAP TO ZONING MAP TO TEXT
AMENDMENTS TO ZONING KIND
OF LAYING OUT THAT PROCESS
OF HOW THINGS WILL GO AND HOW
THEY CURRENTLY GO AND HOW THEY
WILL GO.
>> UM, SO IF YOU ARE OK WITH
THAT THEN WE'LL START WITH THE
STAFF AT ITS ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANY FEEDBACK FROM
THE TABLE.
>> UH COUNCIL MEMBER SORRY.
THANK YOU.
YEAH IN GENERAL THESE ALL
LOOKED GREAT TO ME.
I CHECKED OVER BUT I WAS
CONFUSED I WAS CONFUSED BY THE
FIRST ONE THAT'S A NEW ONE SO I
WAS GONNA DRAW MY ATTENTION TO
DOING THE RIGHT WAS ASKING A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT QUESTION
WHICH IS IT DO WE HAVE ANY
FEEDBACK ON THE PROPOSAL FROM
PLANNER BENNET?
OK, GREAT.
YOU HAVE MADE YOUR COMMENTS
PLANT BEAT GO AHEAD.
THAT'S A GREAT SEGWAY.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS GOING TO
START.
SO IF YOU CAN SEE UNDER
DISCUSSION UM SO THAT WOULD BE
PAGE TWO PAGE TWO IN THE
DOCUMENT YOU HAVE BUT IT IS
REFERRING TO PAGE FIFTY SEVEN
IN OUR THIRD DRAFT OF THE COMP
PLAN.
>> SO UM BRET IF YOU COULD
SHARE YOUR SCREEN I WANT TO
DIRECT YOU TO THE MAP.
THIS IS A STAFF EDIT UM THAT
CAME TO US RECENTLY UM AND TO
BE CLEAR THIS MAP ALREADY HAD A
FEW QUESTIONS FROM YOU ALL AND
CHANGES THAT YOU ALL WANTED TO
BE MADE PARTICULARLY REGARDING
THE MAJOR WALKING BARRIERS THAT
IS INDICATED BY THE ORANGE
LINES ON SOME OF OUR CORRIDORS
.
SO THAT WAS THE ORIGINAL KIND
OF FROM STAFF OR I'M SORRY FROM
PLANNING COMMISSION.
BUT STAFF HAD CAME BACK TO US
AND THOUGHT THAT BECAUSE THEY
ARE GOING TO BE STARTING THE
NEW PROPOSED PLAN COMING UP
THAT THEY FEEL LIKE IT WOULD BE
BEST FOR THEM TO SORT
OF CATEGORIZE AND REIMAGINE,
YOU KNOW, WHAT COUNTS AS A
COMMUNITY PARK.
WHAT COUNTS AS A NEIGHBORHOOD
PARK.
THIS MAP ON PAGE FIFTY SEVEN
LAYS OUT THAT COMMUNITY PARKS
YOU KNOW THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
DEFINITION HERE, THEIR FIVE
ACRES OR GREATER AND SO THEY IT
S LIKE COULD YOU REMOVE THAT
FOR NOW AND REPLACE THAT SECOND
BULLET POINT WITH THE TEXT THAT
YOU SEE HERE.
>> SO THERE'S ON TOP OF THAT
THERE'S ANOTHER OPTION WE
COULDN'T COMPLETELY REMOVE THE
MAP IF YOU ALL ARE OK WITH
THAT, THAT WOULD GIVE US MORE
ROOM FOR FORMATTING OR IF YOU
FEEL STRONGLY THAT THERE SHOULD
BE SOME REFERENCE TO PARKS,
THERE ARE OTHER MAPS OF JUST
OUR PARK SYSTEM FOR EXAMPLE
THAT WE COULD ADD.
>> SURE.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH OK SO I I
DON'T NECESSARILY I'M NOT I
DON'T FEEL A PRESSING NEED FOR
A PARKS MAP.
I'M FINE WITH REMOVING THIS
MAP.
I LIKE THE LANGUAGE THAT SAYS
REPLACE THE SECOND BULLET POINT
WITH THE FOLLOWING AND SO IF
THAT'S GOING TO GO IN THAT
WOULD BE GREAT BECAUSE I'M
HEARING THIS A LOT ABOUT THE
LACK OF PARKS.
>> SO I LIKE THIS LANGUAGE.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
GREAT.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I DIDN'T
MEAN TO SAY I WAS JUST REACTING
TO THE FACT THAT I WAS MOVING
ON AND YOU INTERRUPTED PLEASE
DON'T HEAR ANYTHING ELSE THAT'S
FINE.
>> I'M THINKING THOUGH THAT WE
MAKE IT CLEAR I'M TRYING TO
REMEMBER UP FRONT AT THE START
OF THIS CONFERENCE A PLAN WE
SAY THIS PLAN IS REPLACING YADA
YADA YADA BUT IT WILL WORK IN
CONJUNCTION WITH WAS THE
PROPOSED PARK PLAN ONE OF THOSE
THAT IT WILL WORK IN
CONJUNCTION WITH.
SO WE'RE NOT LIKE GETTING RID
OF THIS.
WE'RE JUST SAYING THAT'S THE
PLACE TO GO TO GET THE MORE
DETAILED INFORMATION CORRECT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> CAN I THINK IT WOULD BE
BETTER IF COMMISSIONERS HAVE
CONCERNS ABOUT ANYTHING THAT'S
IN HERE INSTEAD OF US GOING ONE
BY ONE?
>> I DON'T FEEL ANYTHING TO GO
ONE BY ONE LIKE THREE OR FOUR
THAT I WAS GOING TO SHOW YOU
WHERE WE ACTUALLY WROTE
SOMETHING NEW.
>> OK, BUT WHICH WHICH
DIRECTION DO WE WANT TO GO?
ARE THERE TABLE COMMENTS OR DO
YOU WANT TO GO WITH THE FOUR
NEW ONES?
>> OK, ALL RIGHT SO IT'S SO
DARK HERE FOR VERIFICATION THAT
THIS IS A SUPPORTED CHANGE FROM
YES.
>> IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THERE'S
ANY OPPOSITION TO THE STAFF MAP
AND REPLACE THE LANGUAGE.
>> YES.
OK, JUST IF FOR EVERYTHING IN
THE SPIRIT OF CLARITY UM WHEN
YOU I DON'T EVEN KNOW I DON'T
EVEN KNOW HOW TO SAY THIS.
I THINK WHAT I WANT TO SAY IS
THERE HAS BEEN A LOT
OF CONTROVERSY AROUND THE PARKS
AND REMOVING THE MAP I THINK
WILL FEED INTO A NARRATIVE THAT
THERE IS SOMETHING UNTOWARD
HAPPENING HERE.
SO OUT OF AN ABUNDANCE
OF COMMUNICATION AND CLARITY WE
SHOULD NOTE THAT THIS CHANGE
WAS REQUESTED BY THE PARKS
COMMISSION AND ONCE THAT
PROCESS IS FINISHED, A NEW MAP
WILL BE CREATED AND A FUTURE
VERSION WILL INCLUDE THAT JUST
SO IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE IT'S
BEING IT'S UNDERHANDED IN A
SENSE.
>> GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER, I
I'M IN LINE WITH YOU BUT MAYBE
A LITTLE FRIENDLY AMENDMENT.
I WOULD KIND OF ADD BOTH BOTH
TO THE TEXT TO REMIND FOLKS DO
THE REPLACEMENTS PROPOSE BUT
ALSO ADD THE RATIONALE TO
REMIND FOLKS THAT THE PROPOSED
PARK PLAN IS ONE OF THE PLANS
THAT'S DONE PARALLEL WITH THIS
PLAN AND IT'S CURRENTLY BEING
UPDATED AND REVISED AND THAT'S
THE PLACE TO GO FOR THAT
INFORMATION SO THAT WE DON'T
YEAH.
>> SO IT'S CLEAR WE'RE NOT NO I
LIKE THAT THAT'S THAT'S A GOOD
ONE AND IT'S JUST AN
OVERABUNDANCE OF COMMUNICATION.
DOES THAT MAKE A MAN
OF STARLINER AND JUST THE
RATIONALE QUESTION I JUST WANT
TO BE CLEAR PART OF THE
FEEDBACK WE GOT FROM OUR PARK
STAFF WAS THIS SETS LIKE A
FOREST FIVE ACRES AND THEY
DIDN'T THEY THOUGHT THAT THAT
WAS OVERGENERALIZING AND NOT
PERHAPS GIVING ENOUGH NUANCE TO
OUR WIDE VARIETY OF PARKS.
SO JUST TO FURTHER THE
RATIONALE THAT THIS IS NOTHING
BY NO MEANS INSIDIOUS, IT'S
ACTUALLY THE OPPOSITE THAT THIS
MIGHT BE TOO MUCH OF A
GENERALIZATION.
>> OK, SO I HAVE UM THAT WE
THERE'S SUPPORT TO REMOVE THE
MAP BUT THAT WE SHOULD ADD IN
THE TEXT THAT WE WILL CONTINUE
TO REFER TO OUR MUCH MORE
DETAILED PROPOSED PLAN NOW AND
FOREVER.
>> YES.
OK THANK YOU.
OK UM THE NEXT ONE HERE IS JUST
ABOUT PAGE FIFTY EIGHT WE WENT
BACK AND FORTH ON WHERE THIS
TEXT SHOULD GO.
THIS IS AN ADDITIONAL WAS
PROPOSED UM TO JUST GIVE A BIT
MORE CONTEXT ABOUT OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
SO UM I MADE THE RECOMMENDATION
TO PUT IT ON FIFTY TWO AS A KEY
CONSIDERATION AND I GAVE A BACK
UP THAT IF THAT CAUSES A
FORMATTING NIGHTMARE THAT IT
COULD ALSO GO UM ON PAGE FIFTY
ONE BUT UH THIS WOULD BECOME A
BULLET POINT HERE ON PAGE FIFTY
TWO FOR OK WITH THAT.
>> YEP THAT WAS I THINK MY
ORIGINAL BECAUSE I TRIED TO
CRAFT IT AS A KEY CONSIDERATION
FOR THE YEAH.
SO I WOULD SUPPORT THAT.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
OBJECTION AT THE OK I ONLY HAVE
TWO MORE I THINK UM SO LET'S
SCROLL DOWN THEN WHERE IN YOUR
LEFT COLUMN WHERE IT SAYS PAGE
WHERE YOU GET TO UM ONE ONE
THIRTEEN
OK SO THIS IS IN THE
TABLE WHERE WE TALK ABOUT OUR
DIFFERENT LAND USE CATEGORIES
AND IT WAS PROPOSED THAT THE
COLUMN HERE THAT SAYS ZONING
FOR WAS NOT TREATED SIMILARLY
TO THE WAY THAT THE OTHER LAND
USE CATEGORIES WERE TREATED.
>> IT SIMPLY SAYS AMEND D ONE D
TO A.C. ONE WHILE THE OTHER
LAND USE CATEGORIES HAVE MORE
OF A NARRATIVE.
SO I PROVIDED SOME NARRATIVE
AND AM ASKING TO SEE IF YOU
SUPPORT OR NOT.
SO IT READS UM WELL HOW IT
WOULD READ THERE INSTEAD IS A
NEW MIXED USE DISTRICTS THAT
PERMIT GREATER DENSITIES IN
LAND USES TO MIMIC AN URBAN
DOWNTOWN FORMAT WITH IMPROVED
SAFETY AND FUNCTIONALITY FOR
NON MOTORIZED USERS.
SO IT'S ON PAGE SEVEN IT SPLITS
BETWEEN PAGE SIX AND SEVEN IF
FOLKS ARE LOOKING FOR IT THAT'S
FINE WITH ME.
>> ANY COMMISSIONERS' ALL
RIGHT.
OK AND THEN LASTLY IF WE GO
SCROLL DOWN TO WHERE IT SAYS
PAGE ONE EIGHTEEN IS AT THE
BOTTOM OF PAGE SEVEN IN YOUR
DOCUMENT THERE WAS A REQUEST TO
TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND WE HAD
THOUGHT ABOUT PUTTING IT UNDER
NEW AND A VERSE HOUSING
OPTIONS.
>> OH, I'M SORRY BUT ACTUALLY
IT SAYS SUPPORTED CHANGES ON
ONE WEEK AND ONE OF NINE IT WAS
ORIGINALLY ON ONE EIGHTEEN.
>> YES.
SO RIGHT HERE WHAT DOES NEW AND
DIVERSE HOUSING OPTIONS TO ADD
A PARAGRAPH BENEATH THAT ABOUT
SHORT TERM RENTALS?
>> SO I JUST WROTE A BRIEF KIND
OF HISTORY OF WHEN THEY WERE
ALLOWED IN THE PROCESS WE'VE
GONE THROUGH AND THAT WE ARE
LOOKING FOR TOOLS TO HELP
MONITOR AND IDENTIFY SHORT TERM
RENTALS AND THAT THE FINDINGS
CAN BE USED TO HELP DETERMINE
HOW POLICY CAN IMPROVE UH CAN
BE IMPROVED TO MEET OUR GOALS
OR AFFORDABILITY GOALS.
IT'S FACTUAL CORRECT?
>> ACCORDING TO WHO REVIEWED
IT?
YES.
AS LONG AS IT'S FACTUAL I DON'T
SEE ANY OBJECTIONS OR CHANGES.
>> OK, SO THOSE ARE THE ONES I
JUST WANTED TO DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO.
BUT PLEASE NOTE ON ALL OF THESE
I NOTED SUPPORTED OR NOT
SUPPORTED THIS IS WHAT WE ARE
GOING TO TAKE TO OUR CONSULTANT
TO MAKE THE NEXT CHANGES.
SO UM, IF WE SCROLL DOWN A
LITTLE BIT TO THINGS THAT CAME
UP IN THE NOVEMBER 18TH
MEETING, I JUST WANT TO GO
THROUGH SOME OF THOSE UM I
DIDN'T RECEIVE ANY COMMENTS UM
ANY EDITS.
SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE GOING OVER
OLD EDITS.
THERE ARE NO NEW EDITS FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
UM, THERE WAS A SUGGESTION FOR
US TO MAKE DATA MORE AVAILABLE
LIKE A DASHBOARD AND OR HAVE
SOME ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT TO
SHARE.
YOU KNOW HOW WE'RE ADVANCING
THESE GOALS.
SO I SUGGESTED TO ADD THAT TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX YOU
CAN SEE WHERE UM THERE WAS A
REQUEST FOR US TO REFERENCE
HOMELESSNESS.
UM, AND SO I FOUND ON THE PAGES
WHERE I THINK THAT THAT WOULD
BE SUITABLE UM AND THERE WE
WOULD ADD WE ALREADY HAVE
REFERENCES TO WORKING WITH THE
COUNTY TO ADDRESS HOMELESSNESS
AND THERE IT WOULD BE ADDED TO
ALSO WORK WITH OUR NON-PROFITS
SO WE'D JUST BE ADDING THEM UM
LASTLY THERE WAS LIKE A BRIEF
MENTION OF ADOPTING MORE
FLEXIBLE I'M SORRY BEEN IT
YEAH.
>> SO UNDER THE PART WHERE IT'S
WE'RE SAYING IT'S SUGGESTED TO
AT THE NON-PROFITS CAN CAN WHAT
ARE THE THOUGHTS AROUND THE
SPECIFICITY OF OUR NONPROFIT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUILDERS IS
THAT WHAT YOU MEAN BY THAT OR
WHERE YOU JUST HOW ARE YOU HOW
ARE YOU IN THINKING ABOUT I
BELIEVE THAT'S THE CONTEXT IN
WHICH YOU WAS BROUGHT UP WITH
NON-PROFITS THAT HELP, YOU
KNOW, END HOMELESSNESS.
>> OK, YEAH, THAT COULD BE BOTH
HOUSING PROVIDER SERVICE
PROVIDERS.
I THINK IT WAS JUST TRYING TO
BROADEN THE PARTNERSHIP BEYOND
JUST THE COUNTY AS SORT OF LIKE
OUR CONTINUUM OF CARE AGENCY TO
OTHER ACTORS IN THAT AND THAT'S
GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, THERE WAS A SUGGESTION FOR
ADOPTING MORE FLEXIBLE EU
REGULATIONS SO I HAD LOOKED
THROUGH THE PLAN WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT MISSING MIDDLE YOU WAS
INCLUDED IN THERE SO I FEEL
LIKE THAT HAS BEEN COVERED IF
YOU ALL WANT THAT SPECIFICALLY
CALLED OUT WE CAN DISCUSS THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT IS UM
INCLUDED IN WHAT IS ALREADY
WRITTEN IN THE PLAN AND THEN
FOR THE LAST TWO UM YOU CAN SEE
IN YOUR PACKET THE NEW FUTURE
LAND USE MAP IF YOU ALL FEEL
LIKE THAT'S A ENOUGH QUALITY
THEN THAT'S WHAT WE WILL
REPLACE THE CURRENT ONE WITH.
UM AND THEN LASTLY YOU ASKED ME
TO OUTLINE HOW THINGS WILL GO
IN JANUARY AND FEBRUARY UM AND
THIS IS ON THE FIRST PAGE
OF THE MEMO BUT I'LL JUST WALK
THROUGH THAT QUICKLY THE
COMMENT PERIOD ENDS ON JANUARY
5TH AT NINE A.M. SO I WANT TO
ADD THAT BECAUSE THE TIME HAS
BEEN ADDED IT IS NINE A.M. UM,
ANY COMMENTS THAT WERE RECEIVED
AFTER DECEMBER 11TH AT NOON
WILL BE PLACED ON THE JANUARY
6TH AGENDA PACKET AT JAN AT THE
JANUARY SIX MEETING.
UM, THE PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
WILL BE LOOKING AT THEIR LAST
ROUND OF COMMENTS THAT ARE
SUBMITTED THROUGH ENGAGED PAGE
AND ANY LAST EDITS THAT YOU ALL
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE TO THE PLAN.
WE WILL THEN BUNDLE THEM,
ORGANIZE THEM AND SEND THEM
OVER TO OUR CONSULTANTS.
THEY WILL DETERMINE HOW LONG
THEY THINK IT WILL TAKE TO MAKE
THOSE EDITS BUT THE WAY WE HAVE
THEM ALL IN FRONT OF US NOW.
SO UNLESS THERE'S A MAJOR
CHANGE, UH, WE FEEL LIKE THIS
COULD PROBABLY BE READY FOR A
PUBLIC HEARING IN THE SECOND
HALF OF FEBRUARY.
ONE OF YOUR LATER MEETINGS IN
FEBRUARY.
SO THEN IT WOULD GO THROUGH THE
FIRST PUBLIC HEARING WITH YOU
ALL AND THEN AFTER THAT WE YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE TO NOTICE ALL
OF THESE THINGS AND WE NEED THE
YOU KNOW, THE RIGHT AMOUNT
OF TIME IN BETWEEN MEETINGS.
BUT WE WOULD LOOK THEN FOR THE
CITY COUNCIL MEETING LIKELY IN
ONE OF THEIR MARCH MEETINGS
.
OK, THAT'S IT FOR THIS DOCUMENT
>> ALL RIGHT.
.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, UM, THE
>> ALL RIGHT.
SHIP MAY HAVE SAILED SINCE I
COMMISSIONER MILLS, UM, THE
WAS TRAVELING THE LAST TIME I
SHIP MAY HAVE SAILED SINCE I
JUST THOUGHT ONE OF THE
WAS TRAVELING THE LAST TIME I
COMMENTS THAT I PROVIDED THAT
JUST THOUGHT ONE OF THE
IT SAYS IS NOT SUPPORTED.
COMMENTS THAT I PROVIDED THAT
>> I JUST THOUGHT I WOULD
IT SAYS IS NOT SUPPORTED.
PROVIDE SOME RATIONALE FOR IT.
>> I JUST THOUGHT I WOULD
>> AND JUST TO CLARIFY, YOU
PROVIDE SOME RATIONALE FOR IT.
SAID THE SHIP MAY HAVE SAID OH
>> AND JUST TO CLARIFY, YOU
SORRY THAT SHIP THAT THE SHIP
SAID THE SHIP MAY HAVE SAID OH
MAY HAVE SAILED BY IT'S PAST MY
SORRY THAT SHIP THAT THE SHIP
BEDTIME.
MAY HAVE SAILED BY IT'S PAST MY
IT IS IT IS A THIRTY.
BEDTIME.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHILD
IT IS IT IS A THIRTY.
WHO'S WATCHING ON TV GO TO BED
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH CHILD
AND THIS IS REFERRING TO PAGE
WHO'S WATCHING ON TV GO TO BED
158.
AND THIS IS REFERRING TO PAGE
>> IT'S 115 TO 116 AND AND THIS
158.
IS THE THING SORRY GUYS BUT I
>> IT'S 115 TO 116 AND AND THIS
KEEP ON COMING BACK TO FROM
IS THE THING SORRY GUYS BUT I
INFO GRAPHIC THAT I SAW ABOUT
KEEP ON COMING BACK TO FROM
THE THING THAT I FEEL IT COMES
INFO GRAPHIC THAT I SAW ABOUT
UP AN AWFUL LOT WHICH IS THE
THE THING THAT I FEEL IT COMES
RECOGNIZE IN THAT EVEN IN OUR
UP AN AWFUL LOT WHICH IS THE
EXISTING ZONING WE HAVE AN
RECOGNIZE IN THAT EVEN IN OUR
AWFUL LOT OF TEAR DOWNS AND
EXISTING ZONING WE HAVE AN
BUILDING A VERY LARGE
AWFUL LOT OF TEAR DOWNS AND
STRUCTURES AND THINKING ABOUT
BUILDING A VERY LARGE
HOW THIS IS IN REFERENCE, HOW
STRUCTURES AND THINKING ABOUT
THAT SOME OF THE CONCERN ABOUT
HOW THIS IS IN REFERENCE, HOW
THE NUMBER OF UNITS WITHIN A
THAT SOME OF THE CONCERN ABOUT
BUILDING IS SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
THE NUMBER OF UNITS WITHIN A
THAT LIKE THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDING IS SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
BUILDING AND LEGITIMATELY THE
THAT LIKE THE SIZE OF THE
THE INFO GRAPHIC THAT WAS SENT
BUILDING AND LEGITIMATELY THE
UP THROUGH IN GRAND RAPIDS
THE INFO GRAPHIC THAT WAS SENT
PROHACK HOUSING GROUP.
UP THROUGH IN GRAND RAPIDS
I WAS THINKING ABOUT WAYS TO
PROHACK HOUSING GROUP.
GET THE MISSING MIDDLE AND ALSO
I WAS THINKING ABOUT WAYS TO
DO IT IN A WAY THAT IS NOT JUST
GET THE MISSING MIDDLE AND ALSO
ABOUT WHAT COMBINATIONS.
DO IT IN A WAY THAT IS NOT JUST
AND SO ONE OF THE SUGGESTIONS
ABOUT WHAT COMBINATIONS.
WAS INCLUDING MAXIMUM BUILDING
AND SO ONE OF THE SUGGESTIONS
SIZES THAT ARE TAILORED BASED
WAS INCLUDING MAXIMUM BUILDING
ON THE NUMBER OF UNITS AND SO
SIZES THAT ARE TAILORED BASED
YOU WOULD BOTH POTENTIALLY HAVE
ON THE NUMBER OF UNITS AND SO
A MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE FOR A
YOU WOULD BOTH POTENTIALLY HAVE
SINGLE UNIT BUILDING AS WELL AS
A MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE FOR A
MULTIFAMILY BUILDING THAT
SCALES APPROPRIATELY SO THAT
YOU ARE AGAIN BOTH LIMITING
MANSIONS AND TAKING CARE OF THE
REACTION TO THE SAME THING THAT
COMMISSIONER EVANS WAS TALKING
ABOUT IN HER IN HER FIGURES.
>> SO JUST SAYING REGULATING
BUILDING SIZE I FEEL LIKE WE
KNOW THIS FROM PARKING WE CAN
HAVE BUILDING, WE CAN HAVE
PARKING MAXIMUMS AND PARKING
MINIMUMS AND THEY WORK VERY
DIFFERENTLY.
>> MY SENSE IS I READ INTO THIS
THAT THAT PARTICULAR LANGUAGE
116 WHERE WE TALK ABOUT THE
WAYS THAT WE'RE EFFECTIVELY
USING FOREIGN BASED CODES.
>> I I INTERPRETED THE THE
REFERENCE TO BUILDING SIZE AS
THINKING ABOUT MAXIMUM BUILDING
SIZES.
>> I FEEL LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF COMFORT THAT COULD BE GIVEN
TO SOME FOLKS TO SAY WE ARE
COGNIZANT THAT THIS IS PART
OF THE CONCERN.
THAT'S WHY I ADDED THAT BECAUSE
I DIDN'T THINK IT ACTUALLY
CHANGED THE MEANING AND IF WHAT
WE ARE AND SO THAT THAT WAS THE
INTENTION BEHIND THAT I
UNDERSTAND IT'S NOT SUPPORTED.
WE CAN TOTALLY MOVE ON BUT I
JUST THOUGHT
THIS COMES BACK TO
THIS THIS GRAPHIC THAT I GOT
FROM THE GRAND RAPIDS FOLKS
THAT I THOUGHT WAS REALLY
HELPFUL IN HELPING ME
UNDERSTAND WHAT THAT COULD LOOK
LIKE.
>> SO IN CASE THAT IN CASE THAT
IS BACK A POSSIBILITY TO BOTH
BACK ONTO THE ISLAND TO MAKE
THAT SHIP NOT TO CALL IT BACK
TO HARBOR, I DON'T KNOW.
SO IT'S JUST LITERALLY ADDING
MAXIMUM WITHIN WHERE WE SAY THE
FINAL BULLET POINT.
>> YEP, SO THIS IS THE SECOND
BULLET POINT UNDER SITE
CONSIDERATIONS.
>> YEAH.
AND YOU WANT TO ADD MAXIMUM
MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE BECAUSE
BUILDING SIZE IS NOT CURRENTLY
THERE SO YOU WANT BUILDING
SITES IS THERE THE FOURTH LINE
IT'S IT'S BETWEEN THE THIRD AND
THE FOURTH LINE.
>> OK OK.
>> AND IT JUST SAYS AND MAY
ADDRESS BUILDING SIZE AND I
THINK WHAT WE I I DON'T KNOW
WHAT WE WOULD MEAN OTHER THAN
MAXIMUM BUILDING SIZE I MEAN I
CAN'T IMAGINE YOU'RE MEETING
MINIMUM BUILDING SIZE BUT MAYBE
AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHY I MEAN I
THINK IT'S BETTER TO BE CLEAR
WHAT WE MEAN IS THERE SUPPORT I
DON'T REALLY RECALL DISCUSS
THIS BEFORE I THINK BECAUSE YOU
WEREN'T HERE TO PUSH IT I DON'T
HAVE ANY PROBLEM WITH THAT.
I THINK IT'S FINE TO ADD THAT
THERE'S SOME REASON STAFF
DIDN'T WANT TO ADD IT.
NO, I WOULD I WOULD I DON'T
HAVE ANY OBJECTIONS.
I THINK THAT IS THE INTENTION
THERE.
HOWEVER, I JUST WANT TO BE
CLEAR THERE MIGHT BE OTHER
ASPECTS THERE.
THE THING THAT I WOULD SAY IS
PART OF THIS PLAN IT DOESN'T
HAVE THE ANSWERS TO ALL THOSE
THINGS.
THERE MIGHT BE LOTS EIS
REGULATIONS AS WELL THAT WE
MIGHT LOOK AT FROM A MAXIMUM
PERSPECTIVE.
THERE MIGHT BE DENSITY
CALCULATIONS SO I DON'T HAVE AN
OBJECTION BECAUSE I THINK THAT
IS THE INTENTION.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF DECISIONS TO BE MADE IN THAT
REGARD AND BY INCLUDING MAXIMUM
FOR THERE FOR ONLY THAT ONE I
DON'T THINK IT HURTS ANYTHING
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
WRESTLING WITH SOME OF THOSE
OTHER ISSUES AS WELL.
>> COMMISSIONER ADAMS, I DON'T
HAVE ANY PROBLEM WITH THE
CHANGE.
I MY RECOLLECTION IS THAT WE
BECAUSE NOBODY RAISED THEIR
HAND WE DROPPED IT UM, MY ONLY
HESITATION IS I I HAVE TRIED TO
FOCUS MY OWN REVIEW ON LIKE THE
ABSOLUTE ESSENTIALS AT THIS
POINT LIKE ANYTHING SKIMMING
OFF OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT
LOOKS LIKE AN ERROR OR MAJOR
GAP.
>> THIS DOESN'T STRIKE ME AS
ESSENTIAL BUT I'M FINE MAKING
THE CHANGE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
LOOKS LIKE THEIR SUPPORT.
>> LET'S AT COMMISSIONER NORTON
CAN THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
COMMENTS THAT KEEP COMING UP
THAT I'M NOT SURE THAT WE'VE
ADEQUATELY ADDRESSED, INCLUDING
COMING BACK TO WHERE YOU
STARTED THIS SESSION ON NATURAL
FEATURES AND IS THERE ARE WE
GOING TO I'M SORRY, WHO ARE YOU
ADDRESSING THE CHAIR?
>> I'M NOT SURE WHO YOU ARE.
WELL, THERE'S A LOT OF US DOWN
HERE AND YOU JUST LOOKED AND SO
I DIDN'T KNOW WHO YOU WERE
LOOKING.
I THINK WE'RE WE'RE GONNA HAVE
THIS DOCUMENT AND THEN WHAT I
HAD PROPOSED NEXT IS THE PUBLIC
COMMENT THAT WE'VE RECEIVED
COURSE WE'RE NOT CAN WE DO THE
MAP AND THEN THE MEMO AND THEN
DO THE PUBLIC COMMENT?
>> ANY TESTS?
SURE.
GO AHEAD.
WHEN AM I SUPPOSED TO INTRODUCE
THE SENTENCE ON HOMELESSNESS
NOW?
OK, SO WE'RE NOT DONE WITH THIS
DOCUMENT.
OK, SO BY REQUEST OR BY THE AT
THE SUGGESTION OF COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN ON PAGE
SIXTY THREE PDF PAGE THIRTY
SEVEN SECTION ONE POINT FOUR
I'M THINKING AT THE BEGINNING
OF THAT PARAGRAPH MICHELLE WERE
YOU THINKING AT THE BEGINNING
UM I'LL READ THE SENTENCE AND
WE CAN LET THE BODY SO THE
SENTENCE THIS HOMELESSNESS IS
AN OUTCOME OF HOUSING SCARCITY
RISING COSTS AND DISPLACEMENT
PRESSURES AND MUST BE ADDRESSED
AS A LAND USE AND AFFORDABILITY
ISSUE.
IT'S A STATEMENT THAT SHE
WORKED WITH COMMUNITY COMMUNITY
ADVOCATES AROUND HOMELESSNESS
ON AND I THINK IT'S A STATEMENT
THAT THAT THAT MAKES EXPLICIT
SOMETHING THAT I THINK IS WOULD
BE AGREED WITH BY THIS BODY.
>> AND SO THOUGH I KNOW WE ARE
LATE IN THE GAME, IT SEEMS LIKE
A GOOD THING TO AFFIRM IN OUR
IN OUR IN OUR IN THE PART WHERE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT INCOME
ELIGIBLE YOU KNOW, AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
>> SO DOES BUT WE WERE NOT SURE
WHERE TO PUT IT AND THIS WAS
ONE OF THE PLACES YOU HAD
SUGGESTED MICHELLE SO YEAH, YOU
SAID ONE POINT I THOUGHT I HAD
SAID ONE POINT FIVE BUT OH
WORKS FOR EITHER ONE POINT
FIVE.
YES THAT'S EVEN BETTER.
>> YEAH THAT'S EVEN BETTER.
SORRY.
>> WELL I THINK IF THEIR
SUPPORT FOR THAT THAT IF YOU
TRUST IF WE CAN FIGURE OUT
WHERE TO PUT THE SENTENCE IN
THE PARAGRAPH COMBINED WITH THE
GREAT THE MAP DO WE HAVE ANY
OBJECTION TO THIS HIGHER
RESOLUTION MAP.
>> THAT'S GREAT.
OK DO WE HAVE A SORRY I DID IT
AGAIN.
>> I'M SORRY COMMISSIONER
NORTON I HAVE TO STOP THESE
VERBAL TICS.
I THINK THE MAP IS MUCH
IMPROVED.
IT'S MUCH EASIER TO READ.
>> I WOULD JUST ASK I THINK
IT'S STATED IN THE TEXT BUT I
WOULD ADD THAT YOU ADD A LITTLE
BIT OF TEXT AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE MAP THAT'S IN HERE ON
THE MAP ITSELF WHERE YOU YOU
ALL HAD ASKED US TO TAKE THE
LANGUAGE FROM PAGE ONE THIRTY
FIVE AND PUT IT UNDER THIS MAP
UM VERIFYING THAT IT'S IT'S A
YES.
>> SO THAT'S YOU'RE GOING TO DO
THAT.
YES.
OK YES THAT'S WHAT I WAS GOING
TO ASK AGAIN.
THANK YOU AT LEAST I'M
CONSISTENT IN MY THINKING WHEN
I SEE YEAH.
>> SHAMAL SO I THINK I SAW THIS
ON THE GRID OF THE MEMO FROM
BEFORE MINE WAS THE COMMENT
ABOUT THE COLORS ASSOCIATED
WITH THE HASHD PART THAT'S UM
RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSITION AND
BECAUSE IT IT USES ORANGE IT
LOOKS LIKE HUB SO I ASSUME THAT
IN THE FUTURE VERSION OR MAYBE
YOU'RE LIKE THAT'S A BAD IDEA.
>> NO, I THINK THAT'S NOT UNDER
DISCUSSION.
THAT'S UNDER A STAFF SUPPORTED
EDIT OK YEAH THAT'S BEING THERE
BUT I DIRECT ELECTION AS I PUT
IN THERE AND WE WILL MAKE THAT
CHANGE.
>> I SAW IT THERE.
YEAH OK OK I JUST DIDN'T KNOW
IF THIS WAS THE UPDATED MAP I
MEAN YOU DIDN'T TALK ABOUT
STAFF SUPPORTED AT ITS LAST
TIME WE ONLY TALKED ABOUT LIKE
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE SEEING UNDER
DISCUSSION I WENT I MEAN SURE
YOU GUYS YOU KNOW VALIDATE
EVERYTHING I SAID WE DIDN'T GET
TO THE OTHER ADDICTS.
>> THEY'RE JUST GOING TO
HAPPEN.
GRAVES'S SO WHEN SO IT'LL WE'LL
HAVE THIS RESOLUTION OF MAP BUT
WITH IMPROVED COLORS IS WHAT
I'M HEARING.
>> YES.
AWESOME.
COOL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE THE MAP.
WE HAVE THE COMMISSIONER
PROPOSED AT IT.
>> WE NOW HAVE THE MEMO.
>> CAN WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
WE'RE GOING TO UM IF YOU WANTED
TO BRING UP ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT THAT'S IN YOUR PACKET
FROM THE ENGAGE PAGE, WE'RE
GOING TO DO THAT LAST LAST OH
YEAH.
GO TO THE MEMO AND THEN GO TO
THE COMMENTS.
>> UM, OK.
YOU WANT ME TO WALK THROUGH
THIS MEMO NOW?
>> I THINK EVERYONE HAS READ IT
.
OH OK.
I TRUST THAT EVERYONE HAS READ
IT.
I DID AND THANK YOU FOR IT BUT
ANY DISCUSSION
YOU ARE YOU
INCLUDE PETITIONER INITIATED
REASONINGS YOU DON'T TALK ABOUT
COUNCIL INITIATED REZONING.
>> DID OR DID I MISS IT.
I THINK I TALK ABOUT THAT IN
THE SENSE THAT THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP IS ESSENTIALLY LIKE A
CITY BACKED EITHER BY COUNCIL
LIKE I THINK I WAS TRYING TO
SHOW THAT THE FUTURE LAND USE
IS SORT OF THE PRECEDENT FOR
THAT.
>> UM AND THAT'S HOW WE WILL BE
PLANNING TO REZONE THE CITY.
BUT THAT ADDITIONALLY
PETITIONERS HAVE THAT RIGHT AS
WELL.
AND I THE THE REASON THAT I
ASKED FOR THIS WAS THERE IS
AMBIGUITY ABOUT HOW REZONING
HAPPENS.
>> I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE AND
THE FEEDBACK THAT I HAD
RECEIVED ONLY KNOW ABOUT IT
THROUGH THE CITY INITIATIVE
PROCESS.
BUT WE'RE UNAWARE THAT AT ANY
TIME ANYONE CAN COME AND MAKE A
REZONING PETITION AND THAT WAS
JUST WHAT WE WERE TRYING TO
HIGHLIGHT SO THAT IT DOESN'T
BECAUSE PART OF THE FEEDBACK
THAT WE WERE LOOKING AT IN
PARTICULAR WAS AROUND THE FACT
THAT WE'RE MAKING A PLAN THAT
WILL CREATE A SET OF CODE THAT
WILL INITIATE REZONING.
BUT IT IGNORED THE FACT THAT
INDIVIDUAL PETITIONER COULD
COME AND DO IT AND THERE IS A
PROCESS FOR THAT.
IT IS ALREADY SPELLED OUT IN
THE UDC AND WHAT WAS HELPFUL
FOR ME WHEN I MET WITH PLANNER
DELIO IS SHE SHE GAVE ME A
HELPFUL INSIGHT TO THIS.
SHE SAYS ONCE THE PLAN IS
APPROVED EVEN BEFORE THE UDC
GETS CHANGED AND NEW ZONES ARE
CREATED , PETITION OWNERS WILL
COME AND ASK FOR A REZONING
BECAUSE THEY'RE SEEING TO USE A
BIBLICAL TERM WHICH IS REALLY
JUST A GREEK TERM.
>> THE TELOS.
THEY SEE WHERE THIS IS ALL
GOING AND SO THEY WANT TO THEY
WANT TO BE THERE RIGHT ON TIME.
>> YEAH.
SO WHICH IS ALL FINE AND MAYBE
THIS IS A BIT FORMALISTIC ANY
TIME YOU LABEL IT FORMALISTIC
I'M JUST GOING TO SUGGEST
YOU'VE GOT PROCESS RE REZONING
AND YOU'VE GOT A SUBHEADING FOR
PETITIONER INITIATING IT WOULD
BE USEFUL TO HAVE CITY COUNCIL
INITIATED AS A SECOND
SUBHEADING AND IT MAYBE ONLY
NEEDS TO BE A COUPLE
OF SENTENCES THAT YOU KNOW ONE
OF THE REASONS YOU UPDATE A
PLAN AND THEN YOU LOOK AT THE
ZONING IS TO SEE ARE THERE
PLACES WE NEED TO UPDATE THE
ZONING CODE TO NOW REFLECT THE
PLAN?
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT T WHOLE
PLAN UPDATE IS ABOUT AND THEN
IN ADDITION TO THAT, IT'S
ALWAYS THE CASE THAT
PETITIONERS ARE COMING BEFORE
THIS AND ASKING FOR REZONING.
SO THIS THIS MEMO WILL BE
COMMENTS FREESTANDING DOCUMENT.
I THINK IT WOULD JUST KIND
OF IT'LL TAKE ON A LIFE OF ITS
OWN.
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO HAVE
THAT EXTRA SUBHEADING AND HAVE
A LITTLE BIT OF AN EXPLANATION
.
>> DOES THAT MAKE ANY SENSE?
YEAH, I HAVE OBJECTION TO THAT.
ANY OTHER FEEDBACK?
OH YEAH.
GOOD JUST TO SAY THANK YOU FOR
THE LANGUAGE AROUND TRANSITION
THAT WILL BE VERY HELPFUL THE
WAY YOU DESCRIBE IT IN ITS MEMO
.
>> YEAH I I HOPE THAT HELPS.
I I'M TRYING TO EXPLAIN TRYING
TO ASSUAGE ANY FEARS THAT LIKE
UM THAT THERE ISN'T THAT THERE
ISN'T A PROCESS WHEN WE ARE IN
BETWEEN THAT TIME WHEN WE HAVE
ADOPTED THE PLAN BUT HAVING IT
REWRITTEN THE UDC WHAT KIND
OF HAPPENS IN THAT LIMBO THAT'S
WHAT THIS MEMO WAS MEANT TO
ADDRESS.
YOU SHOW PEOPLE THAT LIKE WE
STILL CONTINUE THIS PROCESS AND
THAT IT'S BEEN ON IT'S BEEN ON
THE BOOKS AND WILL CONTINUE TO
BE AND THEN MY I THINK I PUT IT
IN MY COMMENTS TO YOU PLANNER
BENNETT BUT I THINK WE WOULD
BENEFIT IN THE NEW YEAR MAYBE
BETWEEN THE PERIOD OF THE PLAN
BEING APPROVED BY THIS BODY AND
IT BEING APPROVED BY THE NEXT
BODY THAT IF WE COULD HAVE A
PRESENTATION ON JUST LIKE
PLANNING ONE ON ONE COULD JUST
GO BACK AND JUST SORT OF HELP
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND HOW THE U.S.
GETS ACTIVATED.
THE IDEA THAT THERE ARE PLANS
THAT GET REVIEWED BY STAFF BUT
DON'T HAVE SIGHT PLAN THEREFORE
THEY DON'T COME TO THIS TABLE.
IT JUST SOME OF THE BIGGER
ISSUES THAT I DON'T THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE GRASS BUT THERE ARE
ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT AND IF WE
COULD JUST HAVE A LITTLE
SECTION ON THAT, IT COULD BE A
STAFF PRESENTATION WITH A
DISCUSSION AND WE CAN FIGURE
OUT THE FORMAT.
BUT I WOULD ACTUALLY INVITE THE
PUBLIC IF WE COULD FIGURE OUT A
WAY TO DO IT IN A IN A
ORGANIZED WAY TO ASK THEIR
PLANNING QUESTIONS LIKE YOU
KNOW, WE JUST SET ASIDE SOME
TIME AND IT'S LIKE FENCE'S LIKE
THIS NEIGHBORS ON A CORNER.
SO THE FENCE OVER HERE LOOKS
LIKE THIS AND THEIR FENCE OVER
THERE IT LOOKS LIKE THAT.
OH WELL IT DEPENDS ON WHERE THE
POSITION OF THE HOUSE IS
RELATIVE TO THE YOU KNOW, THE
OTHER PIECES AND I JUST LIKE
ANY DEMYSTIFYING THAT WE CAN DO
FROM MY POINT OF VIEW JUST
ESTABLISHES MORE PUBLIC TRUST
IN THE PROCESS AND IF WE CAN
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC IN AN ORDERLY
FASHION WHERE THEY FEEL HEARD
AND WE CAN RESPOND WITH
INFORMATION, I FEEL LIKE THAT
HELPS ENGENDER TRUST.
SO I WOULD JUST PROPOSE THAT
GOT MANAGER LEONARD ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT AGREE WITH THAT AND
JUST PUT ANOTHER PLUG AND WE
DON'T HAVE ANY MORE AT THE END
OF THIS YEAR BUT NEXT YEAR WE
WILL BE RESCHEDULING A COUPLE
OF OUR WHAT WE CALL A TWO TO
YOU JUST PLUG IN FOR THAT.
THAT'S WHERE WE SEND OUR
PLANNING TEAM OUT TO DIFFERENT
PLACES IN THE CITY FOR
BASICALLY AN OPEN OFFICE HOURS
AND THAT'S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE TO ALSO COME ONE
UNDERSTAND THE NUANCES OF FENCE
OR HOW TO DO THIS THAT SO
THAT'S I TOTALLY AGREE.
YEAH, THAT'S A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS BOARD BUT
IT'S NOT THE LAST OPPORTUNITY.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THE REASON WHY I'M
PROPOSING IT HERE IS THE THE
NUMBER ONE CRITICISM THAT WE
RECEIVE IS THERE WE'RE NOT
DIALOG BECAUSE THE NATURE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT IS IT'S YOUR
TIME AND THEN IT'S OUR TIME.
BUT IF WE SCHEDULE TIME LIMITED
DIALOG AND WE CAN ADMINISTER IT
ORDERLY, I THINK THAT CAN HELP
SORT OF TAKE A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT AWAY SO THAT SOMEONE
CAN SAY HEY, I THINK THIS THING
GOT REZONING ILLEGALLY AND WE
CAN SAY OK, LET'S PULL IT ALL
UP AND WE CAN SHOW UDC EXACTLY
HOW IT GOT RESOLVED AND HOW
THIS ALL WORKS.
THERE ARE LOTS YOU KNOW, WE'RE
LOOKING AT A THAT WAS ALREADY A
DOUBLE SIZE BUT WE THOUGHT IT
WAS A LOT COMBINATION AND SO
THEREFORE WE'RE DOING SOMETHING
UNDERHANDED AND IT'S LIKE NO,
THIS THIS IS THE LAW.
>> SO WE ACTUALLY HAVE TO
FOLLOW THE LAW AND THAT COULD
BE AN HOUR ON A ON AN AGENDA
WHERE WE JUST HAVE AN INITIAL
PRESENTATION AND THEN WE HAVE A
BIT OF A FORUM IF THERE'S A WAY
FOR US TO FACILITATE IT THAT
FITS ALL THE LEGAL STATUTES, I
WOULD LOVE ANY FEEDBACK OR
DISCUSSION OR OBJECTION TO THAT
IF YOU HAVEN'T.
OK, FANTASTIC.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I THINK WE'RE DONE.
OH NOW WE HAVE FIVE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THREE COMMENTS TO REVIEW
.
>> SO HOW WOULD YOU PROPOSE TO
DO THIS?
I HAVE I JUST HAVE A COUPLE
THINGS OUT OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS THAT I WANTED TO RAISE
FROM MY REVIEW.
DID YOU HAVE AN ORDERLY WAY YOU
WANTED TO RECEIVE THESE PLANNER
BENNETT OR ARE YOU JUST OPEN
FOR US TO SHARE WITH YOU?
>> I'M OPEN FOR YOU ALL TO
SHARE.
>> EXCELLENT.
THE CHAIR CAN'T GO FIRST SO WHO
WOULD LIKE TO GO TO KICK US
OFF?
>> OH, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
THANK YOU.
JOHN RODEN.
MM HMM.
SUGGESTING THAT OUR DISCUSSION
HISTORY WE HAVE A DISCUSSION IS
LENGTHY REGARDING THE PLACEMENT
OF THE PLAN IN HISTORY.
IT REFERS TO HOW THE CITY
BECAME SEGREGATED AND HOW THAT
SEGREGATION WAS ENFORCED
INFORMALLY FORMALLY WHICH HE
ARGUED TO BE INACCURATE
ORNAMENTAL.
I REVIEWED HIS ARGUMENTS AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT I AGREE BUT AT
THE SAME TIME I DIDN'T WRITE
THAT SECTION AND I'M NOT A
HISTORIAN AND SOME OF IT IS
CITED TOO AND SOME OF IT IS NOT
AND I REALIZE THIS IS A
HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENT MORE THAN
IT IS LIKE FEEDBACK BUT IT IS
SOMETHING I THINK WE REALLY GOT
TO NAIL SOME PRETTY SERIOUS
DISCUSSION WITHIN THE OVERALL
DOCUMENT AND HE'S ALLEGING THAT
IT'S JUST SO WE JUST NEED TO GO
BACK AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS
CONSULTED DRAFT OR STAFF
DRAFTED BUT IF IF THE RESPONSE
BACK IS WE USE PASSIVE VOICE IN
THAT SECTION TO SLIDE OVER SOME
COMPLEXITY IF YOU WANT I THINK
I'M REASONABLY COMFORTABLE WITH
THAT IF WE THINK HE'S RIGHT
THAT IT'S MAKING AN ACCURATE
CLAIMS I THINK WE'VE GOT TO
MAKE SOME IS OK.
>> YEAH COMMISSIONER.
YES YEAH I FEEL LIKE THE SAME
THING AND I READ IT CAREFULLY
AND I HAVE TAUGHT SOME OF THIS
HISTORY AND SO WHAT I TOOK AWAY
FROM I TOOK I DID NOT FULLY
AGREE WITH HIM.
I DO NOT AGREE WITH THE
STATEMENT THAT SEGREGATION WAS
NOT BASED ON CITY LAW.
>> I THINK MINIMUM LARGE
MINIMUM LOT SIZES WAS QUITE
CLEARLY SOMETHING IN CITY LAW
THAT CREATED RACIAL
SEGREGATION.
SO I JUST THINK THAT YOU KNOW
AND I'M SURE THAT IF HE AND I
HAD A CONVERSATION WE MIGHT
COME TO SEE THAT SIMILARLY.
BUT HE DID MENTION THAT WE DO
NOT MENTION ANN ARBOR PASSING
THE FIRST OPEN HOUSING LAW IN
THE NATION IN THE TIME LINE AND
WE MIGHT WANT TO PUT THAT IN
BECAUSE THAT DID HAPPEN.
IT IT WAS RELATIVELY CLOSE IN
THE TIME OF ADOPTING THOSE
MINIMUMS.
SO IT'S A VERY COMPLICATED
HISTORY.
BUT I THINK HIS COMMENTS BOIL
DOWN TO YOU LEFT THIS ONE THING
OFF AND YOU BLAMED THE CITY FOR
SEGREGATION AND THAT'S NOT FAIR
AND I'M BEING A LITTLE BIT
CRUDE BUT IF I'M BOILING IT
DOWN AND SO YES, I THINK IT
WOULD BE GREAT AS COMMISSIONER
ADAM SUGGESTS FOR STAFF TO LOOK
THAT OVER, SEE IF THEY FEEL
GOOD ABOUT THE WHOLE THING.
BUT I WOULD JUST RECOMMEND
STICKING IN WHERE WE THE CITY
PASSED THE FIRST THE NATION'S
FIRST OPEN HOUSING LAW BEFORE
THE FEDERAL LAW REQUIRED IT.
>> RIGHT.
AND I WOULD ADD I WAS ON I
SERVED ON A PANEL WITH DR
MATTHEW COUNTRYMAN FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY HERE AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN WHO
ALSO KNOWS THE LOCAL HISTORY.
THEY'VE MAPPED ALL OF THE
HOUSES THAT WERE OWNED BY BLACK
FAMILIES IN THE CAREY TOWN,
INCLUDING THE CHURCHES, THE
BUSINESS, THE SOCIAL SETTING.
SO HE MIGHT BE A RESOURCE TO
DOUBLE CHECK THAT INFORMATION
AND I ALSO WOULD ARTICULATE
THAT IT IS NOT ENTIRE REALLY
THE CASE THAT THE CITY DID NOT
USE ITS ENORMOUS RULES AND LAWS
TO ENFORCE THE SEGREGATION
BECAUSE THE CITY RECEIVED I
SENT YOU THIS DOCUMENT THE CITY
RECEIVED BLOCK GRANTS FROM THE
GOVERNMENT TO DO SELECTIVE
CODE ENFORCEMENT AND THAT WAS A
A TOOL THAT THEY USED TO
DISPLACE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
FAMILIES WHO COULD NOT QUALIFY
FOR INSURANCE WHILE THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR DID NOT HAVE A RED
LINE MAP.
>> THEY DID HAVE THE FIRE
INSURANCE MAP WAS A TOOL THAT
WAS USED TO DENY MORTGAGES TO
AFRICAN-AMERICANS BECAUSE THEY
COULD NOT GET FIRE INSURANCE
,
THEREFORE THEY COULD NOT GET A
MORTGAGE.
SO IT WAS ANOTHER TOOL THAT WAS
THERE.
>> SO THERE ARE A LOT OF BOTH
OVERT AND PROBABLY NOT SO OVERT
TOOLS THAT CITY GOVERNMENT AND
THE COMMUNITY USE TO SEGREGATE
SO DR. COUNTRYMAN HAS I THINK
PROBABLY FOR FROM MY VANTAGE
POINT GIVEN THAT PANEL I THINK
THE BEST PULSE ON IT AND HE
WOULD ARTICULATE THAT IN ARBOR
WAS AHEAD OF ITS TIME AS A
PROGRESSIVE COMMUNITY BECAUSE
IT ACTUALLY PERMITTED AN
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY TO
LIVE HERE AND THEN WE NOW HAVE
TO UNDERSTAND HOW THAT
COMMUNITY WAS DISPLACED AND SO
THAT WAS A THAT WAS A
COLLECTION OF TOOLS BOTH FORMAL
TOOLS AND INFORMAL TOOLS FOR
THAT.
>> SO I'M HAPPY TO MAKE A
CONNECTION.
THANK YOU TO APPRECIATE YOU
LOOK FORWARD TO THIS.
>> I'LL DO IT TOMORROW MORNING
.
>> ANYTHING ELSE OFF THE OFF
THE TOP FROM ANYONE GOT,
COMMISSIONER?
>> I HAVE A VERY SHORT LIST
.
WE RECEIVED MANY COMMENTS THAT
ARE ASKING US TO RESOLVE THE
RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSITION
CATEGORY AND I THINK THAT THE
MEMO THAT YOU HAVE WRITTEN IS A
GREAT RESPONSE TO THE ANXIETY
AROUND THAT.
>> SO I JUST WHAT I AM TRYING
TO DO RIGHT NOW IS JUST ADDRESS
THAT WE'RE NOT NOT LISTENING TO
THESE COMMENTS BUT THAT THIS IS
OUR RESPONSE IS THAT, YOU KNOW,
THAT IS GOING TO BE HARD WORK.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE DONE WHEN
WE START TO THINK ABOUT THAT,
WE KEEP ON HEARING ABOUT
SHADING OF SOLAR AND I CAN'T
REMEMBER IF WE EVER GOT ANY
LANGUAGE ABOUT THAT.
>> I THOUGHT WE WE DID AND A
PRESENT OH NO.
I'M THINKING OF NEIGHBORHOOD
WEEK.
THERE WAS A PLANNER WHO DID A
WHOLE PRESENTATION ON SHADING
OF OUR PLAN.
I CAN SEND YOU THE LINK IT WAS
QUITE EXHAUSTIVE ABOUT
SPECIFICALLY ANN ARBOR AND HOW
THE BUILDING HEIGHTS AFFECT
OTHERS.
>> SO THERE'S A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT I REMEMBER.
>> ONE I THOUGHT IN RESPONSE TO
THAT PARTIALLY IN RESPONSE TO
THAT WAS THE CAPPING HEIGHTS
AND IN RESIDENTIAL AND ALSO
MAKING TRANSITIONS HEIGHT
CONTENT CONTEXT SENSITIVE SO
THAT THERE WOULDN'T BE THAT
ISSUE OR WE'D HELP MITIGATE
THAT ISSUE.
UM, MISSY DR. STULTS FROM OSHA
UM SOME RESEARCHERS TO LOOK
INTO THAT YOU HAVE AND THEY HAD
SOME PRELIMINARY FINDINGS THAT
IT WASN'T UM THAT SEVERE.
>> AND SO I THINK UPON HEARING
THAT WE DIDN'T PUT A TON MORE
IN THE PLAN ON THAT TOPIC.
>> YES.
AND SO I'M GLAD THAT YOU
REMINDED ME THAT WE CAN CITE
THOUGH THE TWO THINGS THAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT WE
DID DO IN THE PLAN.
>> YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE SHOULD PUT I
MEAN BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE FEELING
LIKE THERE'S A COUNTRY THAT
LIKE THE CITIES WORKING AT ODDS
WITH ITSELF WITH ITS OWN
POLICIES AND IF THERE WERE
SOMETHING WE COULD CITE TO SAY,
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT ALL DAY LONG
UNLESS YOU'RE YOU KNOW, IN SOME
KIND OF CANYON IN MANHATTAN
WHICH IS NOT REALLY WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO CREATE.
>> BUT I DON'T I DON'T REALLY
YEAH.
I'M SORRY.
MAYBE WE COULD FOLLOW UP WITH
OSHA IF IT SEEMS LIKE WE SORT
OF HEARD THE CONCLUSION OF THAT
BUT WE DON'T REALLY HAVE THE
DETAIL OF IT.
MAYBE THERE'S SOME WAY WE CAN
TAKE THAT TO A REFERENCE OF ALL
FINDING IN SOME WAY.
I CONFESS I THINK THAT THIS
CAME THROUGH EITHER RIGHT
BEFORE MY SUMMER VACATION OR
RIGHT AFTER AND SO IT GOT
BURIED.
>> BUT I THINK IT WAS THAT, UH
,DR. MCGRAY HAD FINISHED A
STUDY THAT SHE'S ARCHITECTS
THAT INCLUDED SOME FIGURES
SHOWING THROUGHOUT IT'S IT'S
NOT SO MUCH THEY DON'T
NECESSARILY SHOW THROUGHOUT THE
COURSE OF A DAY BUT AT THE
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF THE
YEAR LIKE WHEN THERE WOULD BE
SHADING AND WHEN THERE WOULD
NOT BE SHADING AND SO I WILL
FIGURE OUT I THINK I DON'T KNOW
WHERE THAT IS PUBLIC BUT I I
SAW SOMETHING THAT WAS
FINALIZED SO I'LL PUT THAT ON
MY BACK.
>> I'LL DIG IT OUT.
YEAH.
IT WAS LOOKING AT LIKE WINTER
SOLSTICE SUMMER SOLSTICE AND
THEN I THINK IT WAS LIKE NINE
A.M. NOON THREE P.M. SIX P.M.
AND IT WAS THREE STORIES I
THINK IT DIDN'T GO HIGHER THAN
THAN FOUR OR FIVE STORIES RIGHT
NEXT TO A SINGLE FAMILY.
SO THERE WERE A FEW DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS SO WE CAN DIG THAT
OUT AND SEE WHERE WE CAN REFER
TO THAT IN THE PLAN AND THAT
MIGHT BE SOMETHING TO DO THAT
TAUBMAN MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN
PUTTING ONLINE THAT THEN YOU
COULD REFER TO.
SO THAT'S WHAT I WILL ACTUALLY
FOLLOW UP BECAUSE THEN YOU
COULD REFERENCE IT.
IT WOULD BE FAIRLY ACCESSIBLE
ACTUALLY JUST FOR WHAT IT'S
WORTH.
>> PART OF THE CONVERSATION WAS
I THINK IT'S A REALLY COOL
ANALYSIS OTHER COMMUNITIES
MIGHT HAVE INTEREST IN AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT MY CENTER
DOES IS TO TRY TO SHARE THESE
KIND OF THINGS AND THE FEEDBACK
WAS IT IS VERY SPECIFICALLY
TAILORED TO OUR LATITUDE AND SO
WE SHOULD NOT LIKE THERE THERE
ARE LIMITATIONS TO
GENERALIZABILITY AND SO THIS IS
VERY MUCH FOR ANN ARBOR.
IT WAS BASED ON A FIVE FOOT
BACK DISTANCE WHICH IS WHAT WE
HAVE IN OUR ONE B I DON'T KNOW
WHICH ONE AND ONE OF THE ONE
OF OUR SPECIFIC ZONING
DISTRICTS.
AND SO THERE WERE SOME
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER IT
WOULD BE SUPER USEFUL TO
GENERALIZE IT.
SO I DIDN'T PUT IT OUT THROUGH
THE CENTER FOR EMPOWERING
COMMUNITIES BUT I I WILL FOLLOW
UP WITH JEN AND SEE IF SHE'S
INTERESTED IN BEING ABLE TO PUT
THEM ON TOP AND TO REFERENCE
THAT WOULD BE FANTASTIC AND
THEN IT'S EASY TO JUST HAVE A
COUPLE OF SENTENCES AND A
REFERENCE TO IT AND TO MAYBE
STATE EXPLICITLY THAT BY
CAPPING HEIGHTS IN RESIDENTIAL
AND MAKING TRANSIT TRANSITION
CONTEXT SENSITIVE, WE ARE
ALIGNING THIS PLAN WITH THE
SOLAR RAYS PROGRAM THAT IS AN
INITIATIVE OF YOU KNOW, I MIGHT
HAVE PUT THAT WHO'S STRONG BUT
YOU KNOW, I'M ASKING ONLY
BECAUSE I'M TRYING TO BE
RESPONSIVE.
>> WE WERE ASKED TO PROVIDE
GUIDELINES ON CONFLICTS BETWEEN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
UNDERLYING ZONING.
BUT I THINK THAT THERE THERE
WOULDN'T BE A GUIDELINE.
I MEAN THE POINT IS THAT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT I DON'T WANT
TO SAY TRUMPS BECAUSE I REALLY
DON'T EVER WANT TO SAY THAT
WORD BUT BUT THAT THAT'S THE
GUIDANCE, RIGHT?
I MEAN OR YEAH.
THERE'S UNDERLYING ZONING NOW.
>> YEAH.
SO RIGHT.
AND YOU CAN ONLY DO WHAT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT ALLOWS RIGHT.
AND WHAT THE DISTRICT
COMMISSION APPROVES AND THERE
ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT CANNOT
BE APPROVED AND I THINK WE'VE
SAID THAT MANY TIMES.
SO I THINK THIS REQUEST I DON'T
KNOW THE EXACT WHEN YOU ARE
REFERRING TO BUT I HAVE MET
WITH THE OLD WEST SIDE AND I
THINK THERE IS SOME FEAR AROUND
ANY MISMATCH BETWEEN UNDERLYING
ZONING AND WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING
AND THERE IS SOME OVERLAP IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE WHERE WE ARE
SAYING THAT IT CAN BE
TRANSITION.
AND SO I THINK THERE'S SOME
QUESTION ABOUT LIKE WHAT'S THE
PRECEDENT BEHIND THAT IF YOU
DON'T IF THE UNDERLYING ZONING
NOW SAYS THAT IT CAN BE A
CERTAIN HEIGHT, WHAT POSITION
DOES THAT PUT LIKE THE DC IN
WHEN THEY HAVE FINAL SAY BUT
THEY ALSO HAVE YOU KNOW, THE
UNDERLYING ZONING AND THEIR OWN
GUIDELINES LIKE THERE JUST
ISN'T A TON OF PRECEDENT I
THINK FOR THAT AND THAT WORRIES
SOME PEOPLE IN THAT AREA THAT
IN THAT AREA I I DON'T KNOW IF
I CALL PRECEDENT BUT AN EXAMPLE
IS RECENTLY THERE WAS A LARGE
SCALE DEVELOPMENT JUST NORTH
OF THE MICHIGAN THEATER THE
LITERALLY THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARY IS BASICALLY ALONG THE
BACK OF THE BUILDINGS THAT
FRONT LIBERTY.
IT DOESN'T INCLUDE THE
PROPERTIES ALONG WASHINGTON.
IF YOU LOOK CLOSELY IN IN THAT
DEVELOPMENT THERE'S ACTUALLY
TWO BUILDINGS AS PART OF THAT
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE'S A SMALLER BUILDING THAT
IS ACCESSED BASICALLY ONLY OFF
OF THE ALLEY AND THEN THERE'S
THE LARGER BUILDING.
I WOULD SAY THAT THAT IS AN
EXAMPLE WHERE THAT BUILDING IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESPITE
SIMILAR ZONING FOR BOTH OF THEM
HAPPENED AT A DIFFERENT OUTCOME
BECAUSE OF THE CONVERGENCE
OF BOTH ZONING AND HISTORIC
DISTRICT REGULATIONS, WHICH IS
ALWAYS THE CASE UNLESS THE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT ZONING IS OR
DESIGNATION IS REMOVED.
AND SO THE THE LAND USE
IMAGINES WHAT THAT LAND WOULD
BE IF THERE WASN'T A HISTORIC
DISTRICT THERE AND THAT WAS HOW
WE DREW ON THE MAP AND IT IS
NOW RESTRICTED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGNATION WHICH
WOULD REQUIRE A VOTE OF COUNCIL
AND THEN A VOTE OF THE
NEIGHBORS OR THE FOLKS INSIDE
THAT ZONE AND THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE.
SO I'M I'M NOT SURE HOW ELSE TO
JUST, YOU KNOW, SORT OF OFFER
COMFORT TO THE GROUP GIVEN THAT
THERE ARE THREE LAYERS OF , IF
YOU WILL, PROTECTION
THERE
SINCE COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS IS
NOT HERE TO SAY ABRAMS IS NOT
HERE TO SAY THIS.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT THERE
THAT I DO STILL FIND IN THE
COMMENTS REFERENCE TO PROPOSALS
THAT ARE NOT IN THE PLAN SUCH
AS PROPOSALS TO REDUCE OR
REMOVE LOT SIZES, SETBACKS AND
OTHER REGULATIONS.
>> SO YEAH.
SO WHAT'S THE EDIT?
NO EDIT IT'S NOT I'M JUST
MAKING NOTE BECAUSE THIS IS ONE
THING THAT COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
DID ONE TIME.
>> IT'S JUST SAYING WE CAN'T
ADDRESS THIS BECAUSE IT ISN'T A
THING AND I'M UNDER ONE POINT
ONE IT SAYS REDUCE OR REMOVE
MINIMUM LOT SIZES, ADJUST
SETBACKS AND OTHER REGULATIONS
TO ALLOW MORE FLEXIBILITY.
>> DOES IT SAY MINIMUM LOT
SIZES IN ONE POINT REMOVE
MINIMUM LIKE I'M LOOKING AT THE
IMPLEMENTATION IN MATRIX UNDER
ONE POINT ONE.
YEP, THAT'S YEAH.
AND IT WAS QUOTED DIFFERENTLY
IN THE PERSON'S COMMENT.
SO I BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE NOT
UNDERSTANDING THE INTENT
OF THIS BECAUSE BUT YOU'RE NOT
PROPOSING A CHANGE RIGHT NOW OK
NO BECAUSE THAT'S PART
OF ZONING AND IT'S NOT AS IF IT
IS NOT AS IF THE PROPOSAL IS
THAT EVERYTHING WILL BE ALLOWED
TO TAKE TO GO FROM THAT LINE TO
LAST LINE.
>> THERE'S NO THERE IS NO
PROPOSAL ADJUSTABLE RATE
BRIDGE.
>> RIGHT.
THERE'S NO NOTHING LIKE THAT.
>> SO AND THEN I THINK WE I
MEAN I HAVE RAISED THIS BEFORE
WHAT MR. MONROE IS RAISING
WHICH IS THAT BECAUSE OUR
NATURAL FEATURES PROTECTIONS
ARE RIGHT NOW TRIGGERED BY SITE
PLAN REVIEW AND THIS PLAN
ENVISIONS MORE THINGS BEING BY
RIGHT AND BIGGER THINGS BEING
BY RIGHT.
>> THERE IS I WOULDN'T SAY A
WHOLE BUT THERE MAY BE THERE
THERE MAY BE A SHIFT AND I
WOULD NOT A I WOULD NOT
REFERENCE THE PARTICULAR THING
THAT WENT ON ON LONG SHORE
BECAUSE THAT'S A DIFFERENT
THING THAT WAS A LOT SPLIT AND
WHATEVER.
>> SO UM WE CAN CONSIDER HAVING
BUILDING PERMITS TRIGGER THOSE
UM BUT WE NEED TO TRIGGER
NATURAL FEATURES PROTECTION BUT
WE ALSO NEED TO CONSIDER THE
LIMITS ON WHAT WE CAN SAY THAT
PEOPLE CAN AND CANNOT DO ON
PROPERTY THAT THEY OWN WHICH IS
WHERE WE ARE NOW.
AND SO I DO NOT SUGGEST A
CHANGE TO THE CLUB.
I THINK THIS IS JUST SOMETHING
THAT WE WILL WRESTLE WITH WHEN
WE MOVE FORWARD AND THAT HAS
BEEN MY UNDERSTANDING ALL
ALONG.
IT'S NOT THAT WE'RE UNAWARE
THAT WE ARE MAKING A CHANGE
RIGHT OR OR SO I PUT THIS OUT.
IS THERE ANYTHING THAT WE
SHOULD SAY THAT ANYONE FEELS WE
SHOULD SAY GOT COMMISSION ONE?
THE REACTIONS I HAD IN THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS WAS THE THERE'S
A LOT OF FOLKS WHO ARE
COMMENTING AS IF THIS PLAN
RESOLVES ALL OF THE LAND I'M
CHUCKLING BECAUSE IT'S IT'S
SORT OF A STARTLING TASK TO
THINK ABOUT BUT IMAGINING THAT
WE'RE ADDRESSING EVERY ISSUE AT
THIS TABLE, THE LENGTH OF THE
DOCUMENT WOULD SIGNAL THAT AND
I THINK THAT I DIDN'T QUITE
APPRECIATE THAT IN JANUARY THAT
BY MAKING A DOCUMENT SO BIG AND
SO ALL ENCOMPASSING WE HAVE IN
FACT SIGNALED TO PEOPLE THAT
WE'RE DOING EVERYTHING HERE AND
THAT NOTHING CAN BE DONE AFTER
THE FACT.
I THINK THAT IF THERE'S A
DESIRE TO DO SOMETHING ON THAT
LEVEL, I THINK SEPARATE AND
INDEPENDENT FACT FINDING NEEDS
TO HAPPEN AND IT NEEDS TO BE
DONE CAREFULLY BECAUSE I'VE
ALREADY BEEN IN FRONT OF THE
ZUBA LIKE THREE TIMES AND JUST
TO DO RENOVATIONS ON MY HOUSE
THAT'S A HIGHLY REGULATED HOUSE
THAT I HAVE AND I WOULD HATE TO
HAVE TO LIKE I JUST CUT DOWN
TWO TREES TO PUT A SOLAR ARRAY
IN I WOULD HAVE HATED TO HAVE
COME A FOURTH TIME IN FRONT
OF SOME PANEL TO GET PERMISSION
TO ADD SOLAR PANELS OR CUT DOWN
A TREE.
SO I JUST IT'S NOT TO SAY WE
DON'T WANT TO DO THAT OR THAT
THE BALANCE WE'RE STRIKING IS
RIGHT.
IT JUST FEELS LATE IN THE HOUR
AND OUTSIDE OF OUR SCOPE
COMMISSIONER AND THAT SO I'LL
POINT OUT I'VE HAD PEOPLE
COMPLAIN TO ME AND WE'VE HEARD
LOTS OF COMMENTS THAT THIS PLAN
ISN'T NEARLY DETAILED ENOUGH
AND HOW MUCH MORE DETAIL WE
NEED TO MOVE AND THEN WE AND
THEN WE GET BUT THIS PLAN IS SO
LONG I CAN'T WAIT THROUGH IT
ALL.
>> THERE'S JUST TOO MUCH HERE.
SO WE'RE DEFINITELY TRYING TO
AND NEED TO STRIKE A BALANCE.
THAT SAID, I'M TROUBLED THAT IF
WE HAVE STANDARDS TO PROTECT
NATURAL FEATURES THEY SHOULD BE
STANDARDS THAT EXIST TO PROTECT
NATURAL FEATURES THAT SHOULDN'T
CHANGE BASED ON WHETHER OR NOT
YOU HAD A SITE REVIEW TRIPPED
OR NOT THERE STANDARDS THAT
SHOULD APPLY EITHER THEY APPLY
OR THEY DON'T.
IT SHOULDN'T BE IT'S ARTIFICIAL
TO HAVE IT ONLY APPLY BECAUSE
WE'VE DEFINED SOMETHING TO
REQUIRE SITE REVIEW SO BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT WE CAN RESOLVE
THAT PROBLEM IN THIS PLAN RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE THAT'S NOT THE
LEVEL OF DETAIL WE'RE GETTING
AT.
SO I'M LOOKING ON PAGE 152 AT
THE THE THAT ARE SPEAKING TO
NATURAL FEATURES AND I AM
WONDERING AND MAYBE I'M LOOKING
AT STAFF MAYBE YOU CAN COME UP
WITH RIGHT VERBIAGE BUT IT
SOUNDS LIKE IN THE PROCESS
OF DOING THE THINGS THAT WE
SAID WE SHOULD BE DOING WHICH
IS TO UPDATE REGULATIONS AND
PROCESSES TO REFLECT CURRENT
ECOLOGICAL UNDERSTANDINGS, PART
OF WHAT WE SHOULD BE DOING IS
REVISITING THE CODE TO MAKE
SURE THAT IMPORTANT NATURAL
FEATURES AREN'T SLIPPING
THROUGH THE CRACKS BECAUSE
OF ARTIFICIAL REQUIREMENTS OR
SOMETHING SO THAT IN THE
PROCESS OF UPDATING THE CODE WE
NEED TO BE MINDFUL THAT WE
DON'T WANT TO CREATE LOOPHOLES
THAT ACTUALLY DEFEAT THE
PURPOSE OF HAVING NATURAL
FEATURES.
PROTECTION CAN WE JUST ADD THAT
SENTIMENT SOMEWHERE IN THAT
TEXT SO THAT WE DON'T SO IT
DOESN'T SLIP THROUGH THE
CRACKS?
>> IS THAT GOLD AND IT'S COOL
TAN LINE CAN YOU SUGGEST SO YOU
WANT IT TO SAY I CAN I CAN
DOODLE ON THE WORD NOODLE AND I
CAN THINK ABOUT THIS ONE I CAN
SEND YOU SUGGESTED IF THAT'S OK
FOLKS I THINK GENERALLY IT'S
OK.
>> I JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT THIS IS THE CURRENT
CODE CURRENTLY SO THE PLAN
DOESN'T CHANGE IT.
THIS IS HOW IT CURRENTLY IS
CURRENTLY WORKING.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING'S
WRONG WITH WHICH IS DIFFERENT
FROM ONE POINT OF VIEW.
>> THE PLAN IS NOT MAKING THIS
CHANGE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT ALREADY
EXISTS AND I STARTED TO LOOK AT
THE MAP AROUND TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FEET FROM THAT INVENTORY.
>> I THINK THAT WOULD IT WOULD
PREVENT A LOT OF DEVELOPMENT.
>> IT WOULD ACTUALLY CHANGE
ALMOST EVERYTHING.
>> SO IN ORDER TO LOOK AT A
BUFFER FROM MR. MUNROS
SUGGESTION, WE'D HAVE TO SEE IT
IN A GSCI MAP LIKE WE WANT TO
SEE WHAT IT WOULD ACTUALLY
PROHIBIT AND IF EVERY TREE IS
FITTING INSIDE THAT CRITERION
WHICH IT CURRENTLY IS NOT
BECAUSE IT'S BY SITE PLAN
REVIEW THEN ALMOST NOTHING CAN
BE BUILT BECAUSE OF THE FACT
THAT WE HAVE ONE POINT FIVE
MILLION TREES.
SO IT'S TRYING LIKE I I HERE
AND WANTED TO CLARIFY WHAT I
WAS HEARING AND I THINK IT IS
POTENTIALLY WORTH US REVISITING
THE UDC BUT THAT IS COMING.
SO ONCE THE PLAN IS APPROVED,
IF IT'S APPROVED THE NEXT PHASE
IS THE UDC AMENDMENTS AND THAT
IS THE APPROPRIATE PLACE TO SAY
HOW ARE WE HANDLING NATURAL
FEATURES AND WHAT IS INSIDE
REVIEW AND WHAT IS OUTSIDE
REVIEW AND I THINK WE SHOULD DO
THAT IN LIGHT OF WE ALSO NEED
TO DO THAT IN LIGHT
OF POTENTIAL DOWNSTREAM BURDENS
THAT WE WOULD PUT ON LANDOWNERS
THAT WE HAVE NOT CONSIDERED.
I MEAN WE HAVE PETITIONERS THAT
COME WHO ARE FRUSTRATED WITH
OUR WASTE MANAGEMENT BECAUSE
THEY HAVE VERY STRICT RULES FOR
THAT.
>> AS I TALK TO PLANNERS, I
HEAR VERY CLEARLY WHATEVER THE
FIRE MARSHAL WANTS, THE FIRE
MARSHAL GETS LIKE THAT'S A RULE
BUT IT'S NOT WRITTEN IN THE UDC
SO THOSE THINGS ARE THEY HAVE
IMPLICATIONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT
ENVIRONMENT AND I THINK IT IS
ALSO SLIGHTLY AT ODDS WITH THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT MEMO THAT
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR SENT IN
HAS BEEN INSTRUCTING SOME
OF THE WORK THAT WE'VE BEEN
DOING TO TRY TO SIMPLIFY
DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY.
SO WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS THAT
ARE AT ODDS WITH EACH OTHER NOT
TO SAY, YOU KNOW, I I HAVE FIVE
LANDMARK TREES IN MY BACKYARD
SO NONE OF THOSE TREES WOULD BE
ABLE TO BE CUT DOWN AND NO
ADDITIONS CAN BE ADDED, YOU
KNOW, FOR THE SAME PURPOSES
THAT COMMISSIONER ADAMS JUST
NOTED.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE RECOGNIZE THAT WHAT
WE'RE ACTUALLY DISCUSSING IS IN
THE CURRENT UDC I CAN
APPRECIATE THAT WE MAY WANT TO
STRENGTHEN WHAT WE SEE IN THE
PLAN AND IF THAT'S WHAT YOUR
PROPOSED LANGUAGE IS, I HAVE
FULL SUPPORT OF THAT.
>> TOTALLY UNDERSTAND THE
WHAT'S GOOD BUT I DON'T WANT TO
GET AHEAD OF THE UDC PROCESS
THAT'S TRYING TO BE MANAGED IF
THE LANGUAGE WE HAVE IN THE
PLAN IS SIGNALING STRONGLY
ENOUGH THAT WE SHOULD REVISIT
NATURAL FEATURES PROTECTION TO
MAKE SURE THINGS DON'T GET FLIP
OUT BECAUSE THERE ARE LOOPHOLES
OR WHATEVER BUT THAT THAT'S THE
I'M I'M PROBABLY NOT IT'S BEEN
A DAY WE'VE HAD TO KIDS AT HOME
AND I'VE BEEN AT HOME WITH
THEM.
>> SO NAVIGATING ALL OF THAT
I'M NOT CURRENTLY SICK BUT I
WENT TO MASS EVEN IF I WAS LET
ME
GO BACK AND SAY YEAH, I
DON'T KNOW I HAVEN'T STUDIED
THE UDC TRIAL WITH WHAT'S GOING
ON.
>> THERE IS COULD BE
CHARACTERIZED AS A LOOPHOLE OR
IF THAT WAS A POLICY CHOICE WAS
MADE OR SOMETHING.
>> SURE.
AND SO THAT THAT'S THE PART
THAT I WE WOULD ONLY APPLY
STANDARDS BECAUSE WE'VE DEFINED
SOME SOME THINGS TO GO THROUGH
CYCLONE REVIEW AND OTHERS NOT.
>> RIGHT.
SO YOU'RE YOU'RE YOU'RE I GUESS
WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY IS THE
THE SCOPE OF WHAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT I FEEL LIKE THE
THING THAT YOU ARE QUESTIONING
WHICH IS VALID AND SHOULD BE
DEBATED AND DISCUSSED IS OUT
OF SCOPE BECAUSE THE THIS
CURRENT PLAN IS NOT PROPOSING
TO CHANGE THAT.
>> SO SO WE'RE NOT SAYING THAT
WE SHOULD BE REVISITING THE
WHOLE UDC TO ADVANCE OUR GOALS
AND WHEN WE GET THERE THAT'S
WHERE WE COULD DIRECTLY ADDRESS
THE WHAT'S WRONG WITH THAT?
WE RECOGNIZE THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO AND
MAYBE IT'S ALREADY THERE.
>> I MEAN I THINK SOMEONE COULD
CONVINCE ME I'M TRYING TO
CONVINCE YOU.
I'M JUST TRYING TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT IT IS THE SLIPPING
THROUGH PART I THINK WAS IT
LIKE I I WOULD BE IN A
DIFFERENT POSITION IF THE PLAN
SAID, YOU KNOW, ALL THESE
THINGS ARE NOW GOING TO NO
LONGER HAVE THIS REVIEW AND I
THINK THAT'S THE PIECE THAT MR.
MAURO IS TRYING TO GET AT IS
THAT IF MORE THINGS ARE GOING
TO BE BY RIGHT, DOES THAT BY
RIGHT AUTOMATICALLY MEAN NO
SITE PLAN REVIEW?
AND SO HOW DOES THAT THAT FIT
INSIDE THAT CRITERION?
AND I THINK THAT'S MAYBE THE
THING WE NEED TO PROCESS.
BUT LET'S HEAR FROM COMMISSION
COMMISSIONER ADAMS THEN WE'LL
HEAR FROM STAFF.
>> I HAVEN'T TURNED TO MY LEFT.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY I MEAN I
THINK THE PLAN AS A VALUE
EXPRESSES PLENTY OF SUPPORT FOR
THE PRESERVATION OF NATURAL
FEATURES.
I THINK THAT THE SPECIFIC CLAIM
THAT THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT
OUR CURRENT UDC THAT'S
ARBITRARY I DON'T AGREE.
SO TO THE EXTENT THAT THERE'S A
DESIRE TO MAKE A PROPOSAL, WE
NEED TO DO IT SOME OTHER TIME.
I DON'T LIKE I THINK THE PLAN
IS ADEQUATE ON THE ON THE ON
THE POLICY.
IT'S NOT MAKING A SPECIFIC
RECOMMENDATION FOR CHANGES AND
I'M NOT IN A POSITION TO
SUPPORT THAT.
I DON'T I DON'T AGREE THAT SITE
PLAN REVIEW AS A TRIGGER IS
ARBITRARY.
IT I ACTUALLY THINK IT REFLECTS
A ROUGH POLICY CHOICE THAT
CERTAIN TYPES OF LARGER
PROJECTS NEED THAT TYPE
OF REVIEW AND MERIT THAT TYPE
OF REVIEW WHEREAS MY SOLAR
ARRAY DOES NOT.
RIGHT.
UM, MANAGER AND PLANNER BENNETT
SO I DON'T GET TO VOTE ON THIS
PLAN BUT I THINK GOALTEND THE
HIGH LEVEL GOAL THERE.
>> I THINK GETS TO THIS POINT
IT'S TO BALANCE DEVELOPMENT
WITH PROTECTION AND INTEGRATION
OF CRITICAL NATURAL FEATURES.
SO I, I, I DO THINK THAT THE
PLAN EXPLICITLY IDENTIFIES THE
GOAL OF FINDING THAT BALANCE.
>> NOW I FULLY AGREE THAT THE
NINE MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMISSION, THE MEMBERS OF MY
STAFF LET ON THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY MIGHT HAVE DIFFERING
OPINIONS ON WHAT SUCCESS LOOKS
LIKE IN THAT REGARD AND
HONESTLY THAT'S PROBABLY WHY IT
IS FRAMED AS IT IS.
IT IS NOT STATE YOU KNOW AND I
THINK COMMISSIONER DESTRA POINT
PART OF THE PART OF THE START
OF THIS WAS I THINK THERE WAS A
DESIRE TO AT LEAST NOT LOSE
GROUND AND I THINK IT'S FAIR
LIKE WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
OPENING DEVELOPMENT ARE WE
GOING TO LOSE GROUND BECAUSE
OF DIFFERENT RIGHT DEVELOPMENTS
OR WHATEVER THAT GOAL TASKS YOU
IN THE CITY AND STAFF
OF FINDING THAT BALANCE?
AND I THINK THE ORDINANCE
DEVELOPMENT IS THE TIME TO DO
THAT.
WE HEARD SOME EXAMPLES HERE IN
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, TREES IN MY
BACKYARD OR WHATEVER THOSE ARE
GREAT EXAMPLES THAT THERE'S A
LOT OF WAYS TO DO THAT RIGHT
NOW.
WE DON'T PROHIBIT THE REMOVAL
OF LAMARQUE TREES.
THERE'S JUST A CONSEQUENCE AND
WE COULD CHANGE WHAT THAT TAKES
IS QUITE EXPENSIVE ONE BECAUSE
THE HOUSING COMMISSION HAD TO
COME BEFORE THIS BODY AND
APOLOGIZE AND PAY A FINE THAT
WAS ALMOST ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR THAT LANDMARK TREE
.
THE OTHER THE OTHER PIECE OF IT
IS IS THAT WE RELY ON IT.
WE RELY AT TIMES ON A NOT
INSIGNIFICANT COST OF A SITE
WHEN SO WE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
FEATURES ARE ON THAT SITE AND
SO SO THERE'S A LOT
OF CONSIDERATIONS TO GO HERE
AND I DO THINK THAT THE
ORDINANCE IS THE RIGHT TIME TO
DO THAT AND I THINK THAT THIS
CONVERSATION IS EVIDENCE THAT
THIS COMMISSION IS MINDFUL WHAT
THAT BALANCE IS.
BUT FROM MY PERSPECTIVE I THINK
THE PLAN CALLS ON YOU IN THE
CITY TO FIND THAT BALANCE.
>> OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> OH SORRY.
YEAH, I JUST WANT TO REITERATE
I THINK THAT IS MY BALANCE IS
IS SELECTED RIGHT.
AND IT'S NOT MORE STRONGLY
WORDED BECAUSE WE ARE BEING
ASKED TO STAFF NOT JUST IN THIS
DEPARTMENT BUT ACROSS CITY
STAFF TO HELP TRY TO SOLVE THE
CLIMATE CRISIS, THE HOUSING
CRISIS RIGHT.
>> AND WE HAVE PAGES WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS A LOT EARLIER ABOUT
THESE TRADE OFFS.
>> RIGHT.
NOT EVERY SINGLE SITE CAN BE
THE MOST AFFORDABLE, THE MOST
DENSE HAVE THE MOST TREES BE
THE MOST SUITABLE FOR SOLAR.
>> RIGHT.
AT SOME POINT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO DECIDE WHAT THAT
DECISION MAKING FRAMEWORK IS.
AND SO I THINK THAT LANGUAGE IS
TRYING TO SAY LIKE WE HAVE A
LOT OF THINGS WE HAVE TO
BALANCE.
>> WE DO RESPECT OUR NATURAL
FEATURES AND WE WILL GET TO
THAT LATER.
>> SO I THINK YOU ARE BOTH
CORRECT, CHAIRMAN AND
COMMISSIONER NORTON, THAT WE
DON'T HAVE TO SOLVE ALL THE
LOOPHOLES RIGHT NOW THAT'S FOR
THE UDC.
BUT IT IS TIME NOW TO SAY LIKE
DO YOU THINK THIS IS HITTING
THE POINT THAT YOU WANT TO SET
US UP FOR A UDC REWRITE LATER?
SO I THINK THAT'S WHAT I'M
TRYING TO GET OUT.
WE GOT THE WE'RE NOT GOING TO
SOLVE THE PROBLEM HERE.
WE'RE GOING TO SOLVE IT WHEN WE
WERE IS AT THE EDC IS THE
LANGUAGE THE WAY THE GOAL IS?
STAYTON STATED SUFFICIENT TO
SIGNAL THAT WE EXPECT TO DO
THAT WHEN WE GET TO THAT STAGE
AND MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE TAKING
STEPS TO PROTECT AND IF
EVERYBODY IN THE COMMISSION IS
SATISFIED THAT IT'S STRONG
ENOUGH THEN I'M FINE WITH THAT
BUT WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT IT AND MAKE SURE
WE'RE COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
>> WHAT SAY YOU ARE
,
COMMISSIONER?
YEAH, SORRY YOU SAW ME THINKING
SO I AM LOOKING ON PAGE ONE
FIFTY TWO BECAUSE I AND I
FLIPPED BACK TO THE TO WHERE WE
TALK ABOUT GOAL TEN OVERALL I
DO THINK THAT THIS IS THE PLACE
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT THE
LANGUAGE ON ONE FIFTY TWO HAS
SOME HERE'S MY OBSERVATIONS THE
VERY FIRST PART THE VERY FIRST
NON BOLDED SECTION UNDER TEN
POINT ONE SAYS BLAH BLAH BLAH
MAINTAIN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
REGULATIONS SO THAT SUGGESTS TO
ME THAT WE SHOULDN'T SLIP BUT
MAKE THE MAINTAIN THE
REGULATIONS LIKE I THINK IS THE
NOD TO LET'S NOT MAKE IT WORSE
BUT I ALSO AND IN MY MIND I
TOYED AROUND WITH LIKE DO WE
CHANGE THAT MAINTAIN TO
EVALUATE BECAUSE I THINK THAT
THAT GETS INTO IF THERE ARE
THINGS THAT ARE BROKEN RIGHT
NOW.
>> BUT I I ACTUALLY THINK THAT
THAT COULD POTENTIALLY MAKE IT
WORSE.
SO LIKE I LIKE BAD OF MAINTAIN
THERE WAS SOME LANGUAGE EARLIER
IN THE EARLIER CHAPTER WORD
GOAL TEN WAS ACTUALLY
INTRODUCED THAT SAID SOMETHING
ABOUT LIKE SITE REVIEW AND AND
THAT MADE ME THINK LIKE OH
WE'RE ONLY TALKING ABOUT SITE
PLAN REVIEW BUT IN THE VERY
FIRST BULLET POINT HERE IT
TALKS ABOUT INCENTIVIZING
QUALITY RATHER THAN QUANTITY IN
OPEN SPACE AND SPACE
REQUIREMENTS WITHIN THE ZONING
CODE .
>> SO IT'S NOT JUST WITHIN SITE
PLAN REVIEW WHICH AGAIN I THINK
THAT THAT CAN BE INTERPRETED A
LITTLE BIT MORE BROADLY.
NO, THIS IS ONLY IN THE CONTEXT
OF OPEN SPACE.
BUT BUT THIS IS OPEN SPACE TO
PROTECT CRITICAL NATURAL
FEATURES.
>> SO I THINK I THINK THAT
ACTUALLY IF SOMEBODY WANTED TO
THINK ABOUT THIS IN THE FUTURE
WHEN WE TAKE UP THIS BULLET
POINT, THAT'S THE PLACE TO DO
IT.
>> I THINK THAT THAT GIVES US
THE FLEXIBILITY AND LANGUAGE
AND THAT THE LANGUAGE THAT I
WAS TALKING ABOUT THAT MADE ME
FEEL LIKE IT WAS ONLY ABOUT
SITE PLAN REVIEW IS LINKED TO
THE SECOND BULLET POINT HERE
BECAUSE IN THE EARLIER TEXT IT
TALKS ABOUT EARLIER
CONSIDERATION IN SITE REVIEW
BUT IT DOESN'T IT'S NOT
REPEATED HERE AND I THINK THAT
THIS IS THIS IS OUR
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX.
>> SO THIS IS WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO LOOK AT AND THIS IS NOT ONLY
INSIDE PLAN REVIEW THE SECOND
BULLET IT'S IT OF THE RESULT IN
EARLIER CONSIDERATIONS.
IT DOESN'T SAY DOESN'T SAY
SPECIFICALLY SITE PLAN REVIEW.
IT JUST DOES WITHIN DEVELOPMENT
SITES.
>> SO THAT IS MY RAMBLING WAY
OF SAYING I THINK IT'S
COVERED AND ALSO FOR PEOPLE
THAT HEAR ABOUT THIS TOPIC WHEN
WE GET TO THIS WHEN WE ACTUALLY
TO IMPLEMENTATION THAT I THINK
THAT THOSE ARE THE PLACES WHERE
WE'LL BE ABLE TO COME BACK IN
AND SAY HEY, WE MIGHT HAVE SOME
LOOPHOLES NOW AND THE LANGUAGE
DOESN'T SAY THAT WE'RE LIKE
WE'RE IT'S ENTIRELY ABOUT
BALANCING.
>> IT'S NOT OPENING MORE GATES
NECESSARILY.
SO YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
THINKING.
I'M COMFORTABLE WITH YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THEY'RE
SUPPORT TO MAKE ANY CHANGE.
>> I MEAN I KIND OF HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION JUST TO MAKE SURE
ON THIS PAGE ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING AND SO THANK YEAH,
ABSOLUTELY.
>> THE COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
JUST NOW THE ONLY THING IN THAT
WITH THEIR SECOND BULLET POINT
IT IS IN THE FOUR TO SIX YEAR
RANGE AND I DON'T KNOW IF IF
THAT SEEMS FINE OR IF
WHICH ONE
IN PARTICULAR THE DEVELOPING
AND SENT AND INCENTIVES.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
>> THE THE TIMEFRAMES ARE ARE
TOUGH BECAUSE THE THING IS
WE'RE GOING TO BE WRITING THE
U.D. REWRITING THE UDC AT ONCE
AND SO THAT WHOLE PROCESS COULD
TAKE SEVERAL YEARS.
I THINK THIS MIGHT JUST MEAN
THE ONES THAT SAY ONE, TWO,
THREE IS WHERE WE WOULD START.
UM BUT THAT'S ALL UP TO YOU IF
YOU ALL WANT TO MAKE THAT.
>> YEAH, I'M NOT SAYING THAT'S
UNREASONABLE BUT IT SORT
OF SIGNALS MAYBE NOT AS
IMPORTANT OR AS LIKE ONGOING OR
ONE THAT'S THREE YOU KNOW
WOULD
YOU LIKE TO PROPOSE SOMETHING
NOW.
>> OK COMMISSIONER DISH YOU HAD
THE FLOOR WITH YOUR LIST.
>> HAVE YOU FINISHED YOUR LIST.
OK OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OH THE
CHAIR.
>> OH THANK YOU.
UH LET'S SEE MR. GARBER WANTS
US TO CHANGE A WHOLE BUNCH
OF WORDS UH BECAUSE
OF RESILIENCY AND I WONDER SO
THROUGH THOSE SEVEN COMMENTS
ARE THERE ANY THINGS WE CAN
EXTRACT OUT OF THOSE THAT WOULD
BE HELPFUL HERE THAT WOULD
STRENGTHEN OUR COMMITMENT TO
THE TO THE CLIMATE AND OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF THAT AND THE
CHALLENGE THAT WE FIND
OURSELVES IN.
>> SO I THINK A LOT OF THE
FEEDBACK WAS JUST THE THE TERM
ISN'T AS MEANINGFUL AND USEFUL
IN THE WAY THAT IS USED AND
IT'S USED A LOT IN THE IN THE
TEXT SOME THE RECOMMENDATION IS
TO STRIKE THAT WORD WELL I'M
WELL A I'M ASKING THE TABLE
THOUGHTS ABOUT HOW WE CAN
THROUGH OUR WORDS STRENGTHEN
OUR ALREADY PRESENT COMMITMENT
TO THE CLIMATE.
>> SO WE HAVE THE MILLICH WE'RE
TAKING AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ALL
OF THE TIME TO THAT.
>> AND IS THAT IS THAT EFFORT
EQUALLY REFLECTED IN THE PLAN?
AND I THINK MR. BARBER'S
COMMENT AS I UNDERSTOOD IT WAS
THE USE OF THE TERM RESILIENCE
AS A IS NOT AS USEFUL.
>> GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
I THINK I UNDERSTAND WHAT MR.
GERBER'S CONCERNED ABOUT AND
I'M THINKING LIKE AN ACADEMIC
ACADEMICS DEBATE ALL THE TIME
OVER THE USE OF TERMS AND THEY
CAN ALWAYS FIND OUT REASONS FOR
WHY THIS IS A BAD TERM AND IT
DOESN'T DO THAT AND YOU CAN
KIND OF GO IN CIRCLES.
SO I'M A LITTLE LESS TROUBLED
THAT WE'RE USING THAT TERM
RESILIENCE MAYBE TOO MUCH.
THE THING THAT I STRUGGLE WITH
IS IS I UNDERSTAND AS WE'VE HAD
CONVERSATIONS IN THE PAST SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE BEING
ASKED TO REQUIRE THROUGH THE
PLAN WE CAN'T ACTUALLY REQUIRE
BECAUSE OF STATE LAW.
CORRECT.
AND SO WHAT I'M TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT IS DOES THE PLAN A
CLEAR ENOUGH WHAT WE HAVE
AGENCY TO BE ABLE TO ADDRESS
VERSUS WHAT WE JUST CAN'T DO
BECAUSE IT'S STATE LAW BOUND
AND OUR ONLY RECOURSE IS TO GO
LOBBY THE LEGISLATURE.
>> SO AND I DIDN'T HAVE A
CHANCE TO STUDY MR. GARBER'S
WELL AND WE DO NOW I THINK
UNDER THIS CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION THE CITY NOW HAS
A LOBBYISTS AT THE STATE LEVEL
BECAUSE I KNOW I WROTE A LETTER
WHEN I WAS SECRETARY TO THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO LOBBY FOR
SUBMUNITIONS THAT WE WERE
LOOKING AT HERE.
AND SO I WONDER IF STAFF COULD
TAKE A LOOK AT OUR CURRENT
LOBBYING EFFORTS AND SEE IF ANY
OF THOSE EFFORTS TO EFFECT
POSITIVE CHANGE TOWARDS THE
CLIMATE COULD BE REFLECTED IN
EITHER OUR IMPLEMENTATION GUIDE
OR IN THE CODE ITSELF.
SO JUST SUPPORTIVE LANGUAGE.
SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT EX THAT'S
FOLLOWED BY A CLIMATE BILL THAT
WAS PASSED BY THE CITY, IT'S
FOLLOWED BY LOBBYING AT THE
STATE LEVEL.
IT'S FOLLOWED BY ONGOING
INITIATIVES TO ADDRESS THE
CLIMATE AND THE CRISIS THAT WE
FIND OURSELVES SOMETHING ALONG
THOSE LINES.
>> SO THE RECOMMENDATION IS FOR
STAFF TO LOOK AT OUR LOBBYIST
EFFORTS IN THIS REGARD BUT
WE'LL JUST SEE.
>> BUT JUST TO SEE IF THERE IS
ANY WAY WE CAN STRENGTHEN WHAT
WE'RE SAYING INSIDE THE PLAN AS
AN ACTION NO, I GUESS A
REFLECTION OF THE EFFORTS AND
WORK THAT WE HAVE ALREADY
UNDERTAKEN AND OUR UNDERTAKING
.
>> SO AND I'M AND FORGIVE ME
YOU KNOW, I'VE READ IT AND I'VE
READ IT AGAIN BUT I HAVEN'T
COMMITTED TO MEMORY.
SO LIKE DO WE EVEN TALK ABOUT
THE KIND OF MILEAGE THAT WE'VE
PUT IN PLACE SO THAT COULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE AT IT,
YOU KNOW?
SO LIKE A FOR EXAMPLE, ALL I'M
LOOKING FOR IS LIKE MAYBE A
PARENTHETICAL SOMEWHERE WHERE
WE SAY FOR EXAMPLE, OUR
RECENTLY PASSED CLIMATE VILLAGE
,OUR LOBBYING EFFORTS AT THE
STATE LEVEL AND OUR ONGOING
EFFORTS TO MEET THE CURRENT
CLIMATE CRISIS THAT WOULD BE
THE KIND OF SO OSHA HAS
REVIEWED THIS EVERY SINGLE
DRAFT AND THEY HAVE ADDED IN
MANY INSTANCES THOSE KIND
OF SENTENCES OF THINGS I WAS
UNAWARE OF .
>> SO THERE ARE SEVERAL KIND
OF FOUR EXAMPLES OR FOR
INSTANCE IS OF WHERE WE CONNECT
AND WHERE THERE ALREADY WERE
THERE ALREADY DOING THINGS.
>> WOULD THAT BE ADEQUATE?
I THINK SO.
I MEAN I CAN TALK TO YOU
OFFLINE TOO.
WELL, IF I CAN I DON'T KNOW IF
I CAN NEVER KNOW THAT ALL WORKS
BUT IT'S JUST TOWARDS THIS AND
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
OBJECTION FROM THE TABLE SO I
DON'T HAVE AN ACTUAL EDIT AT
THE MOMENT.
>> WE YOU DO NOT I THINK I DID
JUST CHECK UNDER MILEAGE AND
THERE ARE MANY VILLAGES THAT WE
MENTIONED THAT WE DO NOT
MENTION THE CLIMATE VILLAGE.
>> THERE'S AN EDIT IN THE
TIMELINE SHOULD AT LEAST BE IN
THE TIMELINE.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S MISSING
THEN WE CAN ADD IT.
THERE'S AN EDIT OK YEAH THERE'S
AN EDIT RIGHT.
>> YEAH AND THIS IS WHAT I MADE
MR. LEINERT SO THIS
SUSTAINABILITY CLIMATE NATURAL
RESOURCES POLICY AGENDA.
SO WE JUST REFERENCE THAT I
THINK THAT THAT AT LEAST SAYS
THAT IT'S WE'RE NOT PAYING LIP
SERVICE TO IT.
>> WE'RE ACTUALLY TAKING
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN THE
REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT WE FIND
OURSELVES IN.
IF WE HAD A MORE PERMISSIBLE
REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT WE'D BE
ABLE TO DO MORE.
>> IT IS IN THE TIMELINE OK OK
I WHEN I SEARCH UNDER MILITARY
I DIDN'T I THINK THE OTHER
VILLAGES ARE REFERENCED IN
BOXES AND IT SAYS A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT WHAT THEY ARE DOING
AND SO MAYBE I MEAN IT'D BE
VERY EASY.
>> OSA IS CONSTANTLY GENERATING
FACTOIDS ABOUT THINGS THAT
THEY'RE THAT THAT HAVE YOU
KNOW, INCREASE IN SOLAR AND ALL
THAT KIND OF THING AND USING
VILLAGE FUNDS TO DO IT AND THAT
MIGHT BE GREAT.
DO THEY MENTION THE BRIGHT
DECARBONIZATION?
>> I WAS GOING TO MENTION THAT
ONE, YEAH.
LET ME LOOK ON IN THIS PLAN.
YEAH, WE HAD AN IMAGE OF IT AND
IT WAS REMOVED ALONG WITH THE
CARTOONS I BELIEVE BUT I JUST
GOT SCOOPED UP HERE IN THE
CARTOONS I THOUGHT WE HAD
REMOVED.
>> NO, NO NOT THE IMAGE BUT THE
BUT THE PROJECT IS I I HATE
LAPTOPS 88 PAGE 88 IT DOES IT'S
IT ISN'T THERE IS A DETAIL UM
YEP.
>> AND ALSO YEAH.
SO 88 ACTUALLY YOU MENTIONED
THE SHADING THING AND IT JUST
COULD BE AUGMENTED A LITTLE BIT
WITH THE LANGUAGE ABOUT
TRANSITION STEPPING DOWN
THERE'S PLACE LIKE RIGHT IN
THERE TO FIX THAT.
UM YEAH NO THIS IS GOOD BUT AND
THE YOU KNOW MAYBE A LITTLE BIT
MORE SPECIFICITY ON WHAT THE
MILEAGE THE CLIMATE MILEAGE HAS
DONE WOULD BE HELPFUL BUT I
DON'T I DON'T REALLY WANT TO
MAKE THIS A HOMEWORK
ASSIGNMENT.
>> IT'S VERY OUR GAME VERY LATE
IN THE GAME TO ME IT WAS JUST A
PARENTHETICAL SO NOT A NOT A
BIG THAT'S SUPPORTED AS AN EDIT
FOR US TO DISCUSS MORE ABOUT
THE CLIMATE MILLAGE, WHAT IT
DOES AND ALSO BRING COMMUNITY
DECARBONIZATION EFFORTS.
I THINK GIVEN THE MAGNITUDE
OF THAT PROJECT AND AT THIS
POINT NOW WE DO HAVE THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY TEN
MILLION DOLLAR GRANT THAT'S
REALLY COMING THROUGH.
OKAY.
IT IT WARRANTS A LITTLE BIT
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE IT'S A
NATIONAL IT'LL BE A FIRST WELL
THEN WE DON'T NEED A PLAN FOR
IT SINCE IT'S ALREADY DONE
MAYBE WE PLAN FOR MORE
HUMIDITY.
WE'VE BEEN OUT THERE DRILLING
THOSE GEOTHERMAL HOLES AS WE
SPEAK.
>> SO THERE WERE FOUR MAJOR
AREAS THAT I SAW IN DECEMBER.
IT WAS AROUND THE TRANSITION
WHICH I THINK MEMO ADDRESSES
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT WHICH I
THINK WE'VE ALREADY ADDRESSED.
>> THERE ARE ONGOING
CONVERSATION TRENDS AROUND
AFFORDABILITY.
I THINK COMMISSIONER ADAMS
ADDRESSED SOME OF THAT TONIGHT
AND HIS COMMENTS WHICH I
APPRECIATE IT.
AND THEN THE INFRASTRUCTURE
CONCERNS WHICH YOU BROUGHT UP
PLANNER BENNET AT OUR WORK
SESSION LAST WEEK THAT THERE IS
STILL A LARGE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THAT IS HAPPENING AROUND
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SO THE PLAN
ALREADY REFERENCES IT.
>> AND SO I JUST WANTED TO NOTE
THAT AS I LOOK THROUGH THESE
COMMENTS THOSE WERE THE FOUR
REPEATING COMMENTS THAT CAME UP
AND THEN WITH REGARD TO THE
AFFORDABILITY QUESTIONS I
JUST
ANYWHERE THAT WE CAN IN THE
AFFORDABLE ABILITY WHERE THE
PLAN SPEAKS ABOUT AFFORDABILITY
THAT WE WOULD POINT PEOPLE TO A
HOUSING APPENDIX BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK I'M BEGINNING TO
BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE HAVEN'T
LOOKED AT THE HOUSING APPENDIX
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE QUESTIONS
THAT I HEAR ABOUT IT ARE
ADDRESSED IN THE HOUSING
APPENDIX.
>> BUT I DON'T WANT TO MAKE A
DISPARAGING REMARK ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT SOMEONE HAS READ
SOMETHING BUT IT IS THERE IT IS
IN THE PLAN.
>> WE HAVE A WHOLE APPENDIX FOR
AND SO I JUST WANT TO STATE
THAT ON THE RECORD AGAIN AND IF
YOU FEEL LIKE THERE ARE PLACES
INSIDE THE PLAN WHERE STAFF
COULD JUST REFER TO IT SEE THE
HOUSING APPENDIX I THINK THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR FOLKS WHO
MIGHT BE SCANNING AND NOT
LOOKING AT THE WHOLE DOCUMENT
AND GIVEN ON ENGAGED THERE ARE
TWO SEPARATE LINKS I THINK A
LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T REALIZE
THEY'RE ACTUALLY FORMING A
SINGLE DOCUMENT.
>> OTHER COMMISSIONERS CAN I
I'M SORRY IN TERMS OF THE WORD
RESILIENCE, ARE WE SUGGESTING
EDIT THERE I DID NOT PROPOSE
ONE OK COMMERCIALLY I THOUGHT
MR. GARBER'S POINT WAS WELL
TAKEN IN THE SENSE THAT YOU
KNOW, I ADVOCATE FOR CLARITY
AND SIMPLICITY WHEREVER THERE
CAN BE.
I DO WANT TO AVOID JARGON ANY
POINT WE CAN.
>> THAT'S WHAT I DO ALSO THINK
THERE'S ACTUAL VALUE TO THE
CONCEPT OF RESILIENCE.
>> I GUESS THIS IS ACTUALLY ONE
IN WHICH THE ABILITY TO ADAPT,
OVERCOME AND COME BACK STRONGER
IS THE KIND OF CONCEPT WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT SOCIAL RESILIENCE OR
THE PHYSICAL RESILIENCE THINGS
OF THAT NATURE.
>> SO I DON'T HAVE PROPOSED
CHANGE.
I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I
AGREE WITH HIS SENTIMENTS ABOUT
SIMPLIFYING OR MAKING IT MORE
PLAIN THAT SAID THAT I ACTUALLY
DO THINK THEY ARE STILL VALUE
IN THE CONCEPT OF RESILIENCE.
>> SO I DON'T HAVE PROPOSED
CHANGE BUT JUST WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I'VE GIVEN IT
THOUGHT AND DON'T HAVE A CHANGE
TO PROPOSE THERE.
SO THANKS.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER MILLS' AS WE WERE
HAVING THE CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE CHANGES FIRST OF ALL I
REALLY APPRECIATE YOU PUTTING
IN SPECIFIC CHANGES.
THERE'S A LOT TO DOVE THROUGH
AND A LOT OF THE COMMENTS ARE
REALLY LONG AND HAVING BEING
ABLE TO SEARCH FOR PAGE LIKE
WHAT THE SPECIFIC CHANGES ARE
REALLY, REALLY HELPFUL.
>> SO THANK YOU.
MANY OF THESE I FEEL LIKE I
REALLY HATE TO PUNT BUT I SORT
OF WANT TO KNOW IF I WAS I
SUPPORT THEM.
I THINK THAT A NUMBER OF THE
CHANGES ARE REALLY STRONG AND
SOME OF THEM MAKE ME THINK LIKE
I DON'T KNOW I I KNOW ENOUGH TO
KNOW THAT IT COULD ALSO GO
SIDEWAYS FOR SOME OF THESE
THINGS.
AND SO I'M CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT
THAT WOULD BE.
AND SO IF I WERE TO DO ANYTHING
I'D BEFORE MAKING THESE
SPECIFIC EDITS I WOULD LOVE TO
WEIGH IN ON THEM WHICH I DON'T
THINK IS PART LIKE I WASN'T I
DON'T KNOW THAT THAT WAS THE
PLAN SO SO THAT'S FOR AND I
KIND OF USE THAT SAME LENS FOR
ANY OF THE OTHER COMMENTS WHICH
HONESTLY THERE WEREN'T TONS
OF COMMENTS THAT WERE SPECIFIC
EDITS AND SO THAT THAT'S THE
FILTER THAT I WOULD HAVE HERE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WORKS IN
OUR PROCESS LIKE OUR TIMING
WISE AND I CONFESS THAT LIKE I
CAN ALSO GO THROUGH THEM ALL
THIRTY TO THIRTY ONE THIRTY ONE
SEPARATE EDITS TO TO SEE THEIR
SPECIFIC ONES WHERE I THINK I
JUST I DID NOT DO MY HOMEWORK
TO COME TO THIS MEETING HAVING
GONE THROUGH ALL OF THEM I'LL
CONFESS ARE YOU SURE YOU'RE
REFERRING TO YOU'RE NOT
REFERRING TO THIS DISCUSS THE
CLIMATE MILEAGE AND THE
CARBON IN THE BRYANT COMMUNITY
DECARBONIZATION YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT THERE ARE MORE EDITS IN
THE PACKET THAT YOU'RE LOOKING
AT THAT YOU WOULD LIKE OSHA TO
REVIEW.
>> YEAH, SO WITHIN THE FIVE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY WHAT IS IT
FIVE HUNDRED TWENTY THREE YEAH.
>> FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
THREE LINES THERE ARE NUMBER
THAT ARE FROM MR. GARBER BROKEN
LIKE THIRTY ONE COMMENTS BROKEN
DOWN SPECIFIC EDITS BROKEN DOWN
INTO MULTIPLE AND IT'S SUPER
EASY TO FOLLOW.
>> I JUST CONFESS THERE WERE
FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY THREE
LINES IN THE SPREADSHEET AND ON
DO IT ALL SO I I THINK THAT
THERE ARE SOME ELEMENTS AND I
KIND OF WANT SOMEBODY ELSE TO
WEIGH IN AND I'M NOT PREPARED
FOR THAT RIGHT NOW SO MAYBE
THAT MEANS THAT I MISSED MY
OPPORTUNITY AND I'M SORRY THAT
I FAILED BUT THAT I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING VERY SPECIFIC RATHER
THAN GOING THROUGH ALL FIVE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY THREE
THERE'S THERE'S SOME THAT ARE
EXTREMELY SPECIFIC EDITS AND
LIKE DOES THIS FROM A STAFF
PERSPECTIVE MAKE SENSE?
I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW THAT AND I
THINK OZZY IS WELL POSITIONED
TO WEIGH IN ON SOME OF THE
SPECIFIC CHANGES AGAIN ON THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT RESILIENCE.
LIKE I COMPLETELY AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER LEE.
THERE'S PROS AND CONS OF USING
SOMETHING THAT IS LIKE THAT AND
AND I'M LOOKING AT THE ONE
RIGHT NOW ABOUT EMERGENCY
RESPONSE AND SHELTER LIKE
ACTUALLY THAT'S WHAT A LOT
OF FOLKS ARE THINKING.
I MEAN THAT'S HOW I THINK ABOUT
RESILIENCE HUBS BUT I DON'T
KNOW THE IMPLICATIONS
OF CHANGING THE NAME OF A
RESILIENCE HUB TO EMERGENCY
EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND SHELTER
LIKE I THINK IT TAKES OUT SOME
OF THAT JARGON WHICH I THINK
COULD BE HELPFUL BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT BOOZES SOMETHING
THEN AND I LEGITIMATELY WOULD
NEED TO PHONE A FRIEND LIKE ASK
SO CAN I RESPOND THAT TERM IN
PARTICULAR IS FROM OOCYTE AND
SO WE'RE USING THAT WORD TO
LINE WITH THEIR TERMINOLOGY.
THERE'S PROBABLY OTHER
REFERENCES TO RESILIENCE OR
MAYBE WE COULD CONSIDER
CHANGING THAT ONE BUT THAT ONE
I FEEL STRONGLY LIKE WE'RE
TRYING TO SHOW SUPPORT TO THEIR
TO THEIR EFFORT.
I'M HAPPY TO SHOW OWI THESE
COMMENTS.
I CAN'T GUARANTEE GIVEN THE
HOLIDAYS COMING UP THAT THEY
WILL REVIEW ALL OF THEM AND
HAVE RESPONSES BY THE JANUARY
SIX MEETING.
>> BUT I WILL ASK THEM TO DO SO
.
>> COMMISSIONER EARLY THANK
YOU.
KIND OF GOING BACK THEMATIC
ELEMENTS LIKE BEFORE THAT YOU
HAD KIND OF SAID I WANTED TO
TALK ABOUT THE INFRASTRUCTURE
COMMENT AS IT WAS A FAIRLY
RECURRING THEME.
>> I'M GOING TO SPECIFICALLY
SPEAK TO MRS. DERVAES COMMENT
JUST REGARDING AND I JUST FOR
PURPOSES OF CLARIFICATION I'M
THINKING THROUGH THIS LIKE OK,
SO LET'S TALK INFRASTRUCTURE OR
WHAT ARE WE TALKING ABOUT STORM
WATER, THE ABILITY FOR SITES TO
RETAIN WATER ACTUALLY A LOT
OF THE SITES CURRENTLY DON'T
COMPLY.
SO WHEN YOU DEVELOP THEY'LL BE
REQUIRED TO HAVE A CERTAIN
LEVEL OF RETENTION THAT'LL
ACTUALLY BE A GOOD REQUIREMENT.
WHAT ELSE?
OK, TAP FEES FOR WASTEWATER
TREATMENT SO THAT THAT IS A
QUESTION I HAVE GENERALLY
YOU'RE REQUIRED TO PAY A TAP
FEE SO WHEN YOU TAP INTO CLEAN
WATER WHETHER YOU SIZE A FOUR
INCH TWO INCH, SIX INCH, EIGHT
INCH YOU'RE GOING TO PAY HALF
FEE ASSOCIATED WITH THE LEVEL
OF FIRE SUPPRESSION, HOW MUCH
WATER YOU PLAN TO CONSUME ETC.
SO LET'S TAKE FOR EXAMPLE THERE
IS A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS AND I
JUST WANT TO BECAUSE GENERALLY
AS A DEVELOPER YOU COME THERE,
YOU START TALKING OK, THIS IS
MY FEES, ET CETERA.
WHAT HAPPENS AT THE POINT WHERE
THAT THAT INCREMENTAL DEVELOPER
COMES AND IT'S LIKE OH SHOOT
HEY CITY.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO BUILD A
TRIPLEX.
IT'S BY RIGHT.
AND YOU ARE TELLING ME THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANY MORE CLEAN WATER
CAPACITY OR WASTEWATER CAPACITY
.
RIGHT.
GENERALLY IT'S BEEN ON AN
INCREMENTAL FEE LIKE A WATER
TAFFY BASIS LEAD ME THROUGH
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S ONE
OF THE QUESTIONS I WAS
SPECIFICALLY JUST WHAT HAPPENS
AT THAT POINT WHETHER IT'S
SUBSTATION ELECTRIC CAPACITY OR
AND IT'S THAT ONE LIKE IT'S AT
CAPACITY AND THAT NEXT
DEVELOPER COMES AND SAYS HEY,
I'D LIKE TO DO THIS AND YOU'RE
LIKE ACTUALLY WE DON'T HAVE
THAT.
SO THEN WHAT HAPPENS AT THAT
INCREMENTAL MOMENT SO THAT'S A
BIG QUESTION AND A LOT OF A LOT
OF DIFFERENT THINGS CAN HAPPEN.
>> BUT ONE OF THE WAYS THAT WE
MAP THIS OUT IS WE MAPPED OUT
WHERE WE THOUGHT THERE WAS
POTENTIAL.
SO FOR EXAMPLE AND A LOT
OF RESIDENTIAL AREAS WENT IN
TALKING TO OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
SPECIALIST SPECIALIST
CONVERTING A SIGNIFICANT
PERCENTAGE OF HOMES FROM SINGLE
FAMILY TO TRY THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THOSE AREAS
IS REALLY IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
HANDLE THAT.
AND SO WHEN WE MAKE THE
REGULATORY CHANGES THAT START
DOING THAT, WE WILL LOOK AT
THAT AS PART OF THAT.
ON THE FLIP SIDE, IF WE HAVE
IDENTIFIED MAYBE SOME AREA AS A
HUB AND BASED ON THE ASSESSMENT
THAT'S HAPPENING OUT OF AN
INFRASTRUCTURE PERSPECTIVE, WE
FIND OUT THAT WE NEED TO MAKE
SOME INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT
PRIOR TO BEING ABLE TO REALIZE
A HIGH LEVEL OF DEVELOPMENT AT
THAT
POINT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO BE THOUGHTFUL AND LIKE A
PETITION BY PETITION PROPERTY
OWNER APPLICATION FOR THAT OR
CERTAINLY ANY CITY INITIATED
THE REZONING TO TO DO THAT.
AND THAT IS SORT OF THE FIRST
LEVEL OF PROTECTION.
THE SECOND LEVEL OF PROTECTION
IS REGARDLESS OF ANY SITE THAT
OF PARTICULARLY OF A LARGE
SCALE THAT IS SITE LAND.
THAT'S PART OF THE ANALYSIS TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE DO HAVE THE
CAPACITY AND SOMETIMES AS PART
OF THAT WE FIND THAT THERE
MIGHT NEED TO BE INFRASTRUCTURE
UPGRADES AS PART OF THAT.
AND SO THAT IS FRANKLY A
CONCERN.
SOMETIMES WE HEAR FROM
PETITIONERS THAT NOT ONLY DO
THEY HAVE TO PAY THE TAP FEE
BUT THEY MIGHT HAVE TO BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
TO IN ORDER TO PROVIDE THAT
THERE MIGHT BE TIMES WHERE THE
BALANCE OF WHAT THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE WOULD BE
NECESSARY IN ORDER TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT MIGHT BE OUT
OF THE REALM OF THEIR PRO FORMA
OR WHATEVER AND SO DOES THAT
HELP ANSWER THE QUESTION?
>> IT'S THERE'S A LOT
OF DIFFERENT WAYS THAT IT COULD
HAPPEN.
BUT IN SHORT WE'RE GOING TO BE
MINDFUL OF THE REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK THAT WE DO WHERE WE
ENABLE IT TO MAKE SURE WE CAN
ACCOMMODATE IT AND PARTICULARLY
THOSE AREAS THAT ARE FRANKLY
GOING TO HAVE MORE POTENTIAL
AND THUS A BIGGER IMPACT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO LOOK VERY CLOSELY
THOSE PUBLIC SERVICES
INFRASTRUCTURE STUDIES THAT
MICHELLE REFERENCED THAT ARE
GOING ON RIGHT NOW TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE WE'RE PHASING NETWORK
APPROPRIATELY.
>> YEAH, GOTCHA.
I KNOW THAT THAT'S HELPFUL.
I'LL TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT MY
EXPERIENCE WHEN WE HAD TO BUILD
A CLEAN ROOM.
IT'S JUST ONE ROOM THAT HAS A
VERY, VERY NO DUST WHATSOEVER.
RIGHT.
IT'S FOR ANALYZING
SEMICONDUCTOR SAID ACTUALLY WE
NEED TO UPGRADE A SUBSTATION.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
ELECTRICITY TO ACTUALLY SERVE
THAT WE ENDED UP THROUGH
NEGOTIATION WITH THE TENANT AT
THE TIME FROM THE DEVELOPER
SIDE WE ENDED PAYING ABOUT FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
NEGOTIATING A NEW EASEMENT.
IT'S A PART OF THE PROJECT COST
AND I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT FOLKS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
IS THAT WILL THIS RESULT IN
HIGHER TAXES OR WILL THE CITY
BE ON THE HOOK FOR PAYING FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADES?
AND I WANT TO AND THAT'S WHY
I'M THINKING THROUGH LIKE I DO
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT FOLKS
UNDERSTAND BECAUSE I SAW THAT
WAS KIND OF REPEATED OCCURRENCE
OF CONCERN ABOUT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
CAPASSO CITY AND IT'S DONE
REALLY KIND OF AT A PROJECT BY
PROJECT LEVEL AGAIN AND WHEN WE
TALK INFRASTRUCTURE I WANT TO
BE LIKE I GUESS CONCRETE
BECAUSE IT'S IT CAN BE VAGUE.
SO I'M TALKING UTILITIES,
ELECTRICITY, NATURAL GAS AND
THEN THAT UTILITIES AND THEN
LET'S TALK STORMWATER
WASTEWATER THERE IS ALSO BEGIN
TREATMENT AS WELL A SUPPLY
OF WATER AND THESE THINGS GET
LOOKED AT AT A PROJECT BY
PROJECT BASIS AND IF THERE'S
INSUFFICIENCY THERE IS THE
DEVELOPER BASICALLY GETS AND
WHAT WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT IS
LIKE WELL HOW IS IT FAIR FOR
SOMEBODY USE UP LIKE NINETY
FIVE POINT NINETY NINE PERCENT
AND THAT NEXT DEVELOPER TO HAVE
TO SAY OH SHOOT NOW I HAVE TO
PAY A MUCH LARGER ONE IF I HAVE
TO UPGRADE SUBSTATION AND
THAT'S WHERE THAT THOUGHTFUL
KIND OF LIKE CAPACITY PLANNING
MAKES SENSE.
BUT I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
BECAUSE FOR EXAMPLE, MRS.
MURPHY'S CONCERN I THINK HAS
JUST ABOUT ZONING AND
PERMITTING GETTING AHEAD
OF INFRASTRUCTURE ON A PROJECT
BY PROJECT BASIS IF THERE ISN'T
CAPACITY STAFF SAYS THAT TO THE
PETITIONER IT'S NOT LIKE AND
THEN THE PETITIONER HAS THAT
KIND OF DEAL WITH IT FROM A OH
SHOOT I HAVE TO BUDGET FOR THIS
NOW AND AND THEN THEY MAY COME
BACK AND SAY OK, IT DOESN'T
WORK.
THEY MAY LOOK TO SAY I'M
PROVIDING HOUSING AT A 20
PERCENT AT 80 PERCENT AMETHYSTS
.
SO COULD I TAKE A LOOK AT A TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING TO HELP ME
WITH THE INFRASTRUCTURE
UPGRADES?
THERE MAY BE DIFFERENT WAYS TO
TACKLE IT BUT I DON'T THINK
THERE'S A POINT IN WHICH THE
CHANGING OF ZONING RESULTS IN
THIS TOTAL KIND OF LIKE
CATASTROPHIC LOADING
OF INFRASTRUCTURE BECAUSE IT'S
DONE AT A PROJECT BY PROJECT.
EACH DEVELOPER HAS TO GO
THROUGH THAT PROCESS.
SO I JUST WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
THAT INCREMENTAL PROCESS LIKE
WHEN SOMEBODY SUBMITS CITY
STAFF REVIEWS IT AND SO LIKE IN
THE ACTUAL CHANGES ARE
PROFFERED HERE IS ABOUT ADDING
TO PAGE ONE THIRTY.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THE VISION
FOR A PARTICULAR AREA
NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT MAY
NEED TO BE DELAYED UNTIL THE
LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE'S UPGRADED
.
THAT'S AN ENTIRELY FAIR I THINK
ASSESSMENT THE QUESTION IS
WHETHER THAT ACKNOWLEDGMENT IS
I SUPPOSE LIKE DOES TO ADD A
LEVEL OF COMFORT RELATIVE TO
WHAT'S ITS ACTUAL UTILITY
BECAUSE TO ME I'M LIKE YEAH, IT
IS ABSOLUTELY POSSIBLE.
I THINK THAT'S ACTUALLY A VERY
FAIR STATEMENT.
BUT AGAIN I DEFER TO TRYING TO
SIMPLIFY LANGUAGE AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE AND TRY TO TAKE OUT
THINGS THAT DON'T NECESSARILY
CARRY MEANINGS OR CARRY
SUBSTANTIVE IMPACT.
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY WHAT I
MEANT TO SAY.
SO I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY I
THINK A LOT OF FOLKS THAT HAD
CONCERNS ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE,
A PROJECT BY PROJECT LEVEL
THERE'S A VERY THOROUGH
ANALYSIS THAT OCCURS AND
GENERALLY IF YOU ARE AT THE
CAPACITY IT'S LIKE SORRY IT'S
KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
PAY TO UPGRADE IT ESSENTIALLY
IS AND THEN WE HAVE A
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT DOES THIS
MAKE SENSE ETC. SO I JUST
WANTED TO GIVE THAT BIT OF A
BACKDROP AS TO A LOT OF THE
COMMENTS THAT I READ AND SO I'M
NOT SURE THAT I AM SPECIFICALLY
ASKING OR PROPOSING FOR THE
ADDITIONS OF THE COMMON AREA
REGARDING LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE
ALIGNMENT CAUSING POTENTIAL
PAUSES BECAUSE AGAIN IT'S THAT
THAT'S JUST KIND OF A FACT
OF HOW SOME OF THESE
DEVELOPMENTS MIGHT GO.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE CONCERNS AROUND
INFRASTRUCTURE WE AREA AND
CITIES THERE'S VERY TALENTED
ENGINEERS AND CITY STAFF THAT
ARE REVIEWING EVERY PROJECT TO
UNDERSTAND CAPACITY FROM WASTE
TREATMENT, TRASH REMOVAL,
ELECTRICITY, WATER, STORMWATER
RETENTION, ET CETERA.
SO I JUST WANTED TO GIVE THAT
FEEDBACK.
>> THANKS, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
THIS IS QUICK.
UNFORTUNATELY IT'S ANOTHER ONE
THAT I CAN'T QUITE DO ON MY OWN
AND I CAN'T PROPOSE SOMETHING
SPECIFIC BUT I WILL BUT I WILL
FLAG IT'S NOT A GENERAL
COMMENT.
THERE ARE A PACKARDS STREET.
THIS WAS A PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE GOT FLAGGED THAT THERE ARE
FIVE OR SIX WHAT I'M GOING TO
CALL RESIDENTIAL SLIVERS.
THEY LOOK ALMOST AS WIDE AS A
ROAD THAT STARTS FROM WHERE A
PACKARD INTERFACES WITH WHAT
APPEARS TO BE STADIUM.
THERE'S A LITTLE STRIP THERE
AND THEN THERE'S A FEW MORE
STRIPS THAT YOU'LL SEE AS YOU
VISUALLY TRACK DOWN PACARD
STREET.
THEY'RE LITERALLY LIKE IN SOME
CASES SIDE OF THE ROAD.
THE PROBLEM WITH IT IS THAT
IT'S GOING TO TRIGGER TAPERING
FOR ALL OF THE TRANSITION IF
YOU'VE GOT LIKE A LITTLE TINY
STRIP OF RESIDENTIAL THERE
YOU'RE GOING TO LIKE MAYBE IT
BUTTS UP AGAINST OTHER
TRANSITION OR SOMETHING ELSE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF IT IF THERE'S
STRIP OF RESIDENTIAL AND WE
TAPER OFF A RESIDENTIAL
PROXIMITY, THEN IT'S GOING TO
AUTOMATICALLY WHACK ALL THAT
STUFF DOWN TO THREE STORIES
WHEN IT PROBABLY DOESN'T NEED
TO BE AND I CAN'T ACTUALLY TELL
IF THOSE SLIVERS WERE
INTENTIONAL
MIGHT ACTUALLY BE
GOOD REASONS FOR THOSE SLIVERS
TO BE THERE AND THAT'S WHAT I
CAN'T SCRUTINIZE.
SO IF THEY'RE SCRIVNER ERRORS
LIKE MEANING IT'S A PRODUCT
OF THE STAFF GETTING MORE FINE
OR THE MAP GETTING MORE FINE
GRAINED THAN FINE LEAVING THEM
IN IF THEY'RE INTENTIONAL.
BUT IF THEY'RE ERRORS I JUST
WANT HIM TAKEN OUT AND CLEANED
UP.
>> DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
YEAH, MY GUESS IS SO BETWEEN
THE SECOND AND THIRD DRAFT WE
MOVED THE MAP FROM LIKE THE
ADOBE SUITE PRODUCTS TO GE'EZ
AND SO THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW
THINGS THAT HAVE COME UP LIKE
THAT WHERE I THINK IT'S JUST
LIKE THAT TRANSITION TO
SOFTWARE.
I DON'T RECALL US EVER
DISCUSSING THAT.
I DON'T HAVE THAT IN THE
RECORDS ANYWHERE THAT THAT
WOULD BE UM DONE DELIBERATELY.
DO YOU RECALL ANYTHING
DIFFERENTLY REGARDING THAT?
NO.
SO I THINK THAT'S JUST LIKE I
CAN ASK THEM TO MAYBE FILL IT
IN BUT I DON'T THINK THAT WAS
DONE ON PURPOSE.
YEAH, I DON'T WANT TO DISRUPT
ANY SPECIFIC POLICY CHANGES IN
THE MAP BUT IF THAT'S JUST A
PRODUCT OF MOVING FROM ONE
IMAGE TO ANOTHER OR ANY OTHER
KIND OF ERROR THEN I JUST WANT
TO GET IT CLEANED UP.
I'M RELYING HERE ON THE FACT
THAT THE PLAN SPECIFIC ABOUT
HOW THESE ARE MEANT TO BE
GENERAL GUIDELINES AND I'M NOT
THAT CONCERNED ABOUT THE POLICY
RAMIFICATIONS OF IT BUT IF WE
CAN AVOID THAT ERROR AGAIN
GOING BACK TO MY ORIGINAL
COMMENT ABOUT CLEANING UP
ERRORS AT THIS STAGE, THAT'S
SOMETHING I WANT TO FIX OTHER
COMMISSIONERS
.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NO OTHER COMMISSIONERS
PLANNER BENNETT, DID YOU GET
WHAT YOU NEED IT TONIGHT?
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
>> EXCELLENT.
I THINK I CAN GO ON TO ITEM
NUMBER 12 PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT WITH US
IN THE CHAMBERS.
>> THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE
IF ON PHONE OR USE THE RACE AND
FEATURE IN ZOOME FOR PHONE
ACCESS DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF ON ZOOM
YOU WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE IN A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN
CHAMBERS OR ON ZOOME PLEASE
GIVE US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
AT THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS US AT THIS TIME?
HI I'M SUSAN KAUFMAN.
I LIVE AT SIX THIRTY FIFTH
STREET COMMISSIONER WHY YOU
ASKED WHAT MORE COULD BE DONE
TO REASSURE THOSE OF US WHO
LIVE IN OR NEAR I'M ACTUALLY
OUTSIDE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
ABOUT THEIR ABILITY TO
ESSENTIALLY CONTINUE OPERATING
UNDER THE GUIDELINES OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
WHICH I APPRECIATE.
BUT WHAT WOULD MAKE US FEEL
BETTER IS TO HAVE THE
UNDERLYING ZONING COMPORT WITH
THE WAY THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
ACTUALLY LOOK ON THE GROUND
WHICH COULD BE DONE BY MAKING
THE LAND USE CATEGORY THE
UNDERLYING LAND USE CATEGORY
RESIDENTIAL.
IT WOULD ENCOMPASS EVERYTHING
THAT CURRENTLY EXISTS IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS INCLUDING
MULTIUNIT BUILDINGS, APARTMENT
BUILDINGS INCLUDING COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENTS.
NOTHING WOULD BE EXCLUDED THAT
I THINK HAVE BEEN THE GOALS FOR
THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT'S HARD FOR US TO UNDERSTAND
WHY THE TRANSITION ZONING MUST
REMAIN THERE WHEN IT CAN'T BE
ENACTED GIVEN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT GUIDELINES AND WHY WE
CAN'T MAKE THE ACTUAL LAND USE
BE REFLECTED IN THE UNDERLYING
LAND USE CATEGORY.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'VE BEEN
STRUGGLING WITH.
IT'S HARD TO UNDERSTAND WHY
WE'RE REMAINING COMMITTED TO A
CATEGORY THAT CANNOT BE ENACTED
TO WHICH WE CANNOT BUILD WHICH
IS TRUE OF TRANSITION.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
I APPRECIATE YOUR EFFORTS BUT
IT'S STILL A FRUSTRATION FOR US
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
I WAS GOING TO CALL ON YOU BUT
I FIGURED YOU WERE GOING TO
COME.
>> THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE THAT.
GREG MONROE WARD FIVE.
>> OK, SO LET'S BE I UNDERSTAND
THE RATIONALIZATION OF MAYBE
THIS IS A UDC PUNTING THE ISSUE
I BROUGHT UP WITH THE NATURAL
FEATURES PROTECTION.
I TRULY UNDERSTAND THAT BUT I
WILL POINT OUT THE PLAN DOES
MAKE A PRETTY STRONG VALUE
STATEMENT, RIGHT, THAT THESE
THINGS MATTER.
IT ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT
RESIDENTS ARE CONCERNED WITH
THAT BALANCING ACT YOU ALL JUST
DESCRIBED AND IN AGAIN,
COMMISSIONER MILLS, IF YOU'RE
POINTING TO A SPECIFIC BULLET
POINT WITH LIKE A FOUR TO SIX
YEAR TIME HORIZON, I THINK WE
COULD UPDATE IT WITH MORE
ROBUST LANGUAGE.
AND AGAIN, I'LL GO BACK TO THE
BALANCING ACT SO IT SEEMS LIKE
THIS IS AN ASYMMETRIC TRADEOFF
FOR US RIGHT IN THE UDC.
HERE'S A QUOTE LIKE COLLATERAL
DAMAGE DURING AND AFTER
CONSTRUCTION ON SCENICALLY
IMPORTANT SITES MUST BE
SCRUPULOUSLY AVOIDED.
IT WILL TAKE ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY YEARS TO REPLACE ANY
INTENDED LOSSES.
THAT'S RIGHT.
IN THE UDC THAT IS OUR CITY
VALUE STATEMENT OF SORT OF WHAT
IS AT STAKE.
RIGHT.
YOU'VE SEEN IN THE NEWS THIS
WEEK SEATTLE AND PALESTINE ARE
IN THE NEWS FOR FLOODING AND
UNDERGOING A LOT OF DISRUPTION
RIGHT TO THEIR LIVES OUT
OF FLOODING AND NATURAL
DISASTERS.
SO YOU KNOW, FOR ATLANTA
OBSERVES TWO TO FOUR TIMES MORE
STORM WATER TO DEVELOP LAND
MATURE TREE CANOPIES INTERCEPT
THREE PERCENT OF RAINFALL
BEFORE IT HITS THE GROUND
CLEARING GRADING SLOPES CUTS
WATER ABSORPTION BY AS MUCH AS
90 PERCENT.
AND AGAIN, THE DEVELOPMENT I'M
SPEAKING OF OCCURRED WITHIN 200
FEET OF THE HURON RIVER.
SO THIS LOSS ACCELERATES
EROSION, DELIVERS MORE SEDIMENT
AND POLLUTED RUNOFF INTO OUR
PRIMARY SOURCE OF DRINKING
WATER AND JUST SIMPLY BEYOND A
PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN, THIS
LOSS JUST FEELS TO ME LIKE
EROSION OF PUBLIC GOODS THAT
ARE DISAPPEARING AT AN ALARMING
RATE IN THIS COUNTRY AND SO
AGAIN, I ALSO I'M NOT GOING
AFTER YOUR TREES IN YOUR
BACKYARD.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M ASKING FOR.
RIGHT.
LET'S NOT CONFLATE THE LONG
TERM PROPERTY OWNERS WITH
ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
RIGHT.
SO I UNDERSTAND THAT MAYBE THE
UDC PERHAPS INTENDS FOR BIGGER
SCALE PROJECTS FOR THESE
PROTECTIONS TO BE TRIGGERED.
BUT I AGAIN TAKING ALL OF THIS
INTO CONTEXT AND AGAIN IF YOU
FRAME THESE AS ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY YEAR LOSSES, I DON'T
THINK THAT'S A GOOD TRADE OFF
FOR 10 CONDOS THAT COST AT ONE
POINT FIVE MILLION DOLLARS
EACH.
I REALLY DON'T I DON'T THINK IT
MOVES THE NEEDLE ON ANYTHING
AND WE ARE LOSING IN THE LONG
RUN.
RIGHT.
SO YOU KNOW AND AGAIN, JUST TO
HEARKEN BACK TO AN EARLIER
COMMENT, YOU KNOW, I UNDERSTAND
THAT THERE MAY NOT BE ANOTHER
CITY SOMEWHERE ELSE THAT WE CAN
POINT TO AND SAY OH MY GOSH,
LIKE LOOK WHAT HAPPENED ONCE
THEY ZONED.
BUT I THINK A LOT OF US ARE
SAYING WE'RE SEEING STUFF IN
OUR BACKYARD.
RIGHT.
AND SO WE'RE SEEING LUXURY
CONDOS BEING BUILT IN OUR
BACKYARD AND WE'RE SEEING THE
EROSION AND LOSS OF NATURAL
FEATURES WHICH AGAIN WE ALL
SEEM TO AGREE EVEN WITH OUR
DOCUMENTATION WE'RE MAKING A
VALUE STATEMENT THAT THESE
THINGS MATTER AND WE'RE JUST
SORT OF GIVING THEM AWAY AND IT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE ANYONE SEEMS
TO CARE AND I THINK THAT'S A
PROBLEM.
AND THE LAST THING I'LL SAY IS
THAT I THINK IT'S ALSO A
PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT THAT WE'RE RELYING ON
THE PRIVATE MARKET TO BUILD
HOUSING LIKE I UNDERSTAND THAT
ARGUMENT.
IT'S THAT WE'RE RELYING ON
PRIVATE MARKET TO ACHIEVE
OUTCOMES THAT ARE IN
CONTRADICTION TO PROFIT
MOTIVES.
SO THAT'S ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR.
GABRIAL.
YOU'RE SEVENTEEN TWENTY ONE
NEWPORT JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON A
FEW THINGS THAT I HAD MENTIONED
EARLIER, SOMEONE ELSE SAID
SOMETHING ALONG THE LINES
OF LIKE YOU KNOW, EVERYONE
COMES UP HERE AND SAYS, YOU
KNOW, YOU'RE NOT LISTENING TO
ME.
SO THEREFORE YOU'RE NOT
LISTENING TO ANYBODY YOU KNOW,
MOST PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR DON'T
EVEN KNOW THIS IS HAPPENING AND
THEY KNOW THAT SOMETHING IS
HAPPENING BECAUSE THERE'S PAUSE
THE PLAN AND NEIGHBORS FOR MORE
NEIGHBORS SIGNS OUT BUT THEY
DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW WHAT'S
GOING ON IN THEIR OWN TOWN.
THEY'RE GOVERNMENT AND THAT WAS
SAID MULTIPLE TIMES IN THE
COMMENTS.
>> SO I FEEL LESS CONCERN THAN
MY SPECIFIC VOICE ISN'T LIKE
THE POSTER OF ALL THIS AND MORE
THAT LIKE THE RESIDENTS OF THIS
COMMUNITY DON'T EVEN KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON AND YOU KNOW
THE THE WAY THAT THE COMMENTS
HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED TONIGHT
REALLY DOES ELUCIDATE FOR ME
WHAT THIS PROCESS LOOKS LIKE,
WHICH IS NOT VERY COMPREHENSIVE
,NOT VERY RESPONSIVE TO THE
COMMUNITY OF THE FOUR HUNDRED
PEOPLE WHO WERE RANDOMLY
SAMPLED TO GIVE INPUT ABOUT
THIS.
THE RESPONSE OF THIS TEAM DOES
NOT FEEL VERY ROBUST TO WHAT
PEOPLE ARE COMING IN AND
TALKING ABOUT.
SO THIS PLAN DOESN'T APPEAR TO
HAVE THE ROBUST SUPPORT THAT
YOU GUYS SEEM TO REPORT AND
JUST TO ADDRESS A COUPLE OTHER
COMMENTS, YOU KNOW, DEVELOPMENT
TODAY LOOKS PRETTY DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT DEVELOPMENT 40 OR 50
YEARS AGO LOOKS LIKE IN TERMS
OF CONCENTRATION OF CAPITAL AND
YOU KNOW, JUST IN TERMS OF LIKE
WHO'S BUYING AND SELLING HOUSES
THAT PROFIT IS REALLY COMING
FROM HOLDING HOMES RIGHT.
CENTERING BUILDERS VERSUS THE
RESIDENTS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
.
I THINK THAT THAT'S A HUGE
PROBLEM AND YOU KNOW, TILLIKUM
YOU KNOW, IN OUR POWER TO A
CITY LIKE HOUSTON FEELS LIKE
REALLY ODD GIVEN THAT HOUSTON
IS LIKE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE AND
THERE'S LIKE ALL THIS SPRAWL SO
YEAH, YOU KNOW, IT WOULD JUST
BE NICE FOR THERE TO BE LIKE A
REAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE PEOPLE WHO
AT MINIMUM WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT
EXACTLY WENT INTO THIS PLAN,
WHO WAS CONSULTED ABOUT IT AND
WHAT PROBLEMS IS IT DESIGNED TO
ADDRESS?
IS IT DESIGNED TO ADDRESS
PROBLEMS OF PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
MOVE INTO THIS CITY OR IS THERE
REALLY ANY THOUGHT AROUND WHAT
PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY LIVE HERE
WANT AND NEED BECAUSE THOSE
THINGS JUST ARE REALLY LINING
UP FOR ME.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
YEAH, JUST AS AN ASIDE, I SHARE
SOME OF GREG AND GABRIELLE'S
DISCOMFORT WITH THE PROCESS
ALTHOUGH I HAVEN'T DIVED INTO
THE SPECIFICS TO THE EXTENT
THEY HAVE IN THE AREA
OF NATURAL FEATURES.
I AM GRATEFUL THAT THIS
COMMISSION IS LISTENING IN.
YOU ARE AND CERTAINLY TO MY
COMMENTS.
BUT AGAIN, I'M NOT THAT REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE EDITS I
SUGGESTED ALTHOUGH I APPRECIATE
COMMISSIONER MILLS CAREFUL
READING, I'M JUST GLAD THAT
THEY WERE BROUGHT UP.
I'M ALSO GLAD THEY'RE BEING
SENT TO OSSI FOR THEIR COMMENTS
.
I WILL SAY THAT IT MIGHT BE
OBVIOUS BY NOW THAT I HAVE SOME
FUNDAMENTAL DIVERGENCE IN MY
POINT OF VIEW FROM ODISSI.
I VERY MUCH APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT SUSTAINABILITY STAFF IS
DOING ON ALL KINDS OF LEVELS
AND IMPLEMENTING
BENCHMARKING
ORDNANCE THE SOLAR RISE PROGRAM
THE MCU, THE BRYANT PROJECT
THEY'RE WORKING EXTREMELY HARD
AND DOING VERY VALUABLE WORK
BUT THERE ARE SOME CONCEPTS
THAT WE'RE BAKING INTO THE PLAN
THAT ARE ACTUALLY NOT CONSENSUS
CONCEPTS.
THEY'RE CONTROVERSIAL THE
CIRCULAR ECONOMY IS ONE
EXAMPLE.
YES, WE OBVIOUSLY NEED TO DO
MORE RECYCLING, REUSE AND
SHARING BUT WHAT A PLAN
EXPLICITLY STATES THAT WE CAN
DECOUPLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
FROM RESOURCE USE.
THIS IS AN ACTIVE DEBATE OUT
THERE WHETHER THIS IS THIS IDEA
OF GREEN GROWTH IS ACTUALLY
SOMETHING WE WANT TO BUY INTO
OR WHETHER WE WANT TO ATTACK A
PROBLEM ON THE DEMAND SIDE SO
BUT WE'RE GOING WITH THIS IN
THE PLAN WITHOUT ANY
DISCUSSION.
THAT'S WHY I FEEL GRATEFUL TO
HAVE BROUGHT IT UP ON THE
RESILIENCE ISSUE.
IT'S SIMILAR.
THIS IS ACTUALLY A HUGE FIELD
IN URBAN DESIGN AND
SUSTAINABILITY AROUND THIS
WHOLE CONCEPT OF RESILIENCE IS
VERY COMPLEX IN CITIES STAFF
HAS ACTUALLY MADE FUNDAMENTAL
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THAT
DISCUSSION.
MY POSITION IS A MINORITY
POSITION.
I THINK THAT WE'VE TAKEN THE
CONCEPT TOO FAR THAT IT
OBSCURES MITIGATION AT THIS
POINT, THAT IT'S UNWARRANTED
OPTIMISM THAT IT'S ANYONE CAN
READ ANYTHING INTO THE IDEA
OF RESILIENCE IF THEY WISH AND
THEN I'D LIKE I DON'T WANT TO
SEE IT ERADICATED FROM THE
PLANET.
I DID NOT SUGGEST CHANGING
SUSTAINABILITY HUBS BUT I JUST
WANTED TO RAISE THE ISSUE AND I
FEEL I'VE SUCCEEDED THAT THESE
ARE NOT CONSENSUS IDEAS BUT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE IN THE PLAN
AND I WISH WE COULD HAVE A
COMMUNITY DISCUSSION AROUND
SUSTAINABILITY THAT TAKES ON
SOME OF THESE ISSUES.
SO ANYWAY I'M SATISFIED WITH
THAT.
>> MY ISSUE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
MR. CORPORATE.
>> MR. LEARNER, DO WE HAVE
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS AT THIS
HOUR?
WE DO.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY WHO WISH TO
SPEAK?
WE HAVE THAT AS WELL.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH ONE NINE FOUR YOU
CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO UNMUTED
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
>> GO AHEAD.
I WAS A LITERATURE CALL.
I REPORT THAT PUBLIC COMMENTS
WERE MADE TONIGHT ESPECIALLY
REGARDING NATURAL FEATURES AND
I'M REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT LONG
TERM RETENTION OF TREES AND I
HAVE A LOT OF COMMENTS AND
SEPARATE BLURB.
BUT WHAT I WANT TO POINT OUT IS
THAT ESPECIALLY THE TRUE NATIVE
TREES AND OTHER VEGETATION
REALLY REPRESENT HISTONE
ELEMENTS THAT SUPPORT
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS AND I
WORRY ABOUT HOW AND WHO WILL
DETERMINE THE BALANCE BETWEEN
DEVELOPMENT AND NATURAL
FEATURES ALSO GOING TO BE
DECIDED BECAUSE ACTUALLY I
DIDN'T REALLY SEE THAT IT'S THE
TREES THAT WITH A MONSTER ON
THEIR CLIMB ON PAGE 153 DRAFTS
OF THE CANDIDATES PLAN IS A
REFERENCE TO THE 2014 URBAN
FORESTRY MANAGEMENT PLAN AND
DIRECTOR OF THAT HAS NOT BEEN
RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC THEY'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO AND WE STILL
HAVEN'T SEEN IT.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN THE CANOPY
UPDATED CANOPY SURVEY.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE BECAUSE
SURELY WE HAVE FEWER TREES
TODAY FOR THE CANOPY THAN WE
DID IN 2014.
BUT REFERENCES CANOPY
COVER BURST OF CATEGORIES THAT
WERE IN EFFECT IN 2014 AND THAT
WILL BE CHANGED LIKE THIS AND
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT I
WANT TO JUST POINT OUT THAT IN
THE PROJECTION OF CHANGES OVER
30 YEARS IN CANADA IS A
PROJECTION TO HAVE A CHANGE
FROM 37 PERCENT TO 67 PER CENT
CANOPY COVER IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS AROUND PROPERTIES WE KNOW
FROM THE WELL THE PLAN HAS BEEN
DEVELOPED THAT WILL MUCH FEWER
THAN LANDMARKED THE LAND AREA
WILL BE SMALLER FOR RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES IN THE FUTURE.
SO WE'LL COVER THOSE TREES WITH
LOTS OF MAGIC UP TO 60 PER CENT
GO ON THE RESIDENTIAL.
WE STILL HAVE FEWER TREES IN
THE CITY BECAUSE LESS ASSUMED
RESIDENTIAL.
SO I'M WONDERING HOW HOW ARE WE
GOING TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
BALUT TO KEEP THE IMPORTANT
FEATURES ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES
THAT WE GET FROM TREES AND
OTHER VEGETATION ALSO REPORTED
FOR OUR PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY
AND FOR AND FOR 30 MORE SECONDS
OF SUPPORTING THE LIVESTOCK
THIS YEAR WE HAVE THIS FEAR
THAT WE'RE GOING TO LOSE TOUCH
WITH NATURE AND THAT'S THE
REASON THAT I REALLY WANT
STRONG CONSIDERATION OF TREES
AND DETERMINATION WHAT THIS
BALANCE MEANS AND HOW IT'S
GOING TO BE MANAGED.
THANK THANK YOU MR MITCHELL.
>>
ALEX SLOW ECONOMY AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
HI THIS IS ALEX THOUGH TWO
THREE TO PITIABLE I'M I WANT TO
THANK COMMISSIONER MENTALS FOR
POINTING OUT ACTUALLY ANOTHER
ISSUE WITH OUR ARMED FORCES
OWNING THAT I HADN'T SEEN WHEN
I COMMENTED ABOUT THAT THE
SETBACKS AND SHOWS THAT I WAS
EARNING I REALLY DON'T NEED A
LOT OF WORK AND SO GLAD THAT
WE'RE GOING TO GET THAT
OPPORTUNITY OVER THE NEXT YEAR
OR TWO AS I WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT ACCORDING TO THE
WASHINGTON POST THAT THEY HAD
THE TREE COVER AND HAS IN FACT
INCREASED OVER THE LAST THAT
SEVERAL YEARS NOT NOT DECREASED
SO I THINK THAT WE ARE DOING
WELL AND WE SHOULD CONTINUE
WHAT WE'RE DOING.
I ALSO DO WANT TO SAY THAT I I
UNDERSTAND PEOPLE FEELING
UNREPRESENTED AND IN THAT THEY
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I CERTAINLY
FEEL UNREPRESENTED IN THE
DISCUSSIONS THERE HAVE BEEN
THERE'S BEEN NOTHING TO TALK
HIGH DENSITY AND MINIMUMS.
IT'S ETC. EVEN IN PLACES LIKE
DOWNTOWN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU MR NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND TAKE US TO ITEM NUMBER
THIRTEEN COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS SEEING NONE I WILL
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DIS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL
COMMISSIONER ADAMS WE ARE
ADJOURNED.
>> OH SORRY I HAVE TO ASK YOU
TO VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY
I AM ANY OPPOSE NOW WE ARE
ADJOURNED